A brute force solution that works is better than an elegant solution that doesn't work. -- Steve C McConnell
A controller that cannot control itself is worse than no controller at all: If you cannot manage yourself, you have no business managing others. -- Gerald Weinberg, Quality Software Management: First-order measurement, 1993
Adapting old programs to fit new machines usually means adapting new machines to behave like old ones. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
After all, C++ isn't a perfect match for Java's design aims either. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
A good system can't have a weak command language. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
A language that doesn't affect the way you think about programming, is not worth knowing. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
A LISP programmer knows the value of everything, but the cost of nothing. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
All new features added to C++ are intended to fix previously new features added to C++ -- David Jameson
A mathematician is a device for turning coffee into theorems. -- Paul Erdos
An adequate bootstrap is a contradiction in terms. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
A programming language is low level when its programs require attention to the irrelevant. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
A program without a loop and a structured variable isn't worth writing. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Arguing that Java is better than C++ is like arguing that grasshoppers taste better than tree bark. -- Thant Tessman
Around computers it is difficult to find the correct unit of time to measure progress. Some cathedrals took a century to complete. Can you imagine the grandeur and scope of a program that would take as long? -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
As Thomas Hobbes observed in the 17th century, life under mob rule is solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short. Life on a poorly run software project is solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and hardly ever short enough. -- Steve C McConnell
As Will Rogers would have said, "There is no such thing as a free variable." -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
A year spent in artificial intelligence is enough to make one believe in God. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Beauty is more important in computing than anywhere else in technology because software is so complicated. Beauty is the ultimate defence against complexity. -- David Gelernter
Because of its vitality, the computing field is always in desperate need of new cliches: Banality soothes our nerves. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Being really good at C++ is like being really good at using rocks to sharpen sticks. -- Thant Tessman
Beware of the Turing tar-pit in which everything is possible but nothing of interest is easy. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Bringing computers into the home won't change either one, but may revitalize the corner saloon. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
C++: an octopus made by nailing extra legs onto a dog. -- Steve Taylor
Certainly not every good program is object-oriented, and not every object-oriented program is good. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
C++: glacial compiles, insane complexity, impenetrable errors, laughable cross-platform compat[ibility], basically useless tools. -- Aaron Boodman
C++ has its place in the history of programming languages. Just as Caligula has his place in the history of the Roman Empire. -- Robert Firth
C++ is a language strongly optimized for liars and people who go by guesswork and ignorance. -- Erik Naggum
C++ is an insult to the human brain -- Niklaus Wirth
c++ is a pile of crap. -- Theo de Raadt
C is C++ without the BS. -- SocialPhatology
C++ is history repeated as tragedy. Java is history repeated as farce. -- Scott McKay
C++ is like jamming a helicopter inside a Miata and expecting some sort of improvement. -- Drew Olbrich
C++ is more of a Rube-Goldberg type thing full of high-voltages, large chain-driven gears, sharp edges, exploding widgets, and spots to get your fingers crushed. And because of it's complexity many (if not most) of it's users don't know how it works, and can't tell ahead of time what's going to cause them to loose an arm. -- Grant Edwards
C is not a big language, and it's not well served by a big book. -- Brian W. Kernighan and Dennis M. Ritchie, in The C Programming Language, Prentice Hall, 1988
C++ is probably the only language where the error [message] can be longer than the program -- aiju
C++ is the best example of second-system effect since OS/360. -- Henry Spencer
"C is the Fortran of the 90s." Wrong. C is the Fortran of the 70s. -- Norman Diamond
C++ is the only current language making COBOL look good. -- Bertrand Meyer
C++ is to C as Lung Cancer is to Lung. -- Clayton Cramer
Clearly, I reject the view that there is one way that is right for everyone and for every problem. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
C makes it easy to shoot yourself in the foot; C++ makes it harder, but when you do, it blows away your whole leg. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
Computation has made the tree flower. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Computer Science is embarrassed by the computer. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Computers don't introduce order anywhere as much as they expose opportunities. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming. -- Brian Kernighan
C++: Simula in wolf's clothing. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
C: The language that combines the power of assembly language with the flexibility of assembly language. -- [unknown]
C++ will do for C what Algol-68 did for Algol. -- David L Jones
Dealing with failure is easy: Work hard to improve. Success is also easy to handle: You've solved the wrong problem. Work hard to improve. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Debugging is twice as hard as writing the code in the first place. Therefore, if you write the code as cleverly as possible, you are, by definition, not smart enough to debug it. -- Brian W. Kernighan and P. J. Plauger in The Elements of Programming Style
Defining OO as based on the use of class hierarchies and virtual functions is also practical in that it provides some guidance as to where OO is likely to be successful. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
Deleted code is debugged code. -- Jeff Sickel
Deletion is the most important tool of software design. -- [unknown]
Documentation is like term insurance: It satisfies because almost no one who subscribes to it depends on its benefits. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Don't have good ideas if you aren't willing to be responsible for them. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Early in the project you can have firm cost and schedule targets or a firm feature set, but not both. -- Steve C McConnell
Editing is a rewording activity. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Everyone can be taught to sculpt: Michelangelo would have had to be taught not to. So it is with great programmers. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Every program has (at least) two purposes: the one for which it was written, and another for which it wasn't. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Every program is a part of some other program and rarely fits. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Everything should be built top-down, except the first time. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Finally I'm becoming stupider no more. -- Paul Erdos
First, I'd like to see the basic tools such as compilers, debuggers, profilers, database interfaces, GUI builders, CAD tools, and so forth fully support the ISO standard. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
First, solve the problem. Then, write the code. -- John Johnson
Fools ignore complexity. Pragmatists suffer it. Some can avoid it. Geniuses remove it. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
For systems, the analogue of a face-lift is to add to the control graph an edge that creates a cycle, not just an additional node. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Functions delay binding; data structures induce binding. Moral: Structure data late in the programming process. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Get into a rut early: Do the same process the same way. Accumulate idioms. Standardize. The only difference(!) between Shakespeare and you was the size of his idiom list - not the size of his vocabulary. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Giving up on assembly language was the apple in our Garden of Eden: Languages whose use squanders machine cycles are sinful. The LISP machine now permits LISP programmers to abandon bra and fig-leaf. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
God may not play dice with the universe, but something strange is going on with the prime numbers. -- Paul Erdos
Good code is its own best documentation. As you're about to add a comment, ask yourself, 'How can I improve the code so that this comment isn't needed?' Improve the code and then document it to make it even clearer. -- Steve C McConnell
Historically, languages designed for other people to use have been bad: Cobol, PL/I, Pascal, Ada, C++. The good languages have been those that were designed for their own creators: C, Perl, Smalltalk, Lisp. -- Paul Graham
However, when Java is promoted as the sole programming language, its flaws and limitations become serious. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
I believe C++ instills fear in programmers, fear that the interaction of some details causes unpredictable results. Its unmanageable complexity has spawned more fear-preventing tools than any other language, but the solution should have been to create and use a language that does not overload the whole goddamn human. -- Erik Naggum
I consider C++ the most significant technical hazard to the survival of your project and do so without apologies. -- Alistair Cockburn
If a listener nods his head when you're explaining your program, wake him up. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
If a program manipulates a large amount of data, it does so in a small number of ways. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
If builders built houses the way programmers built programs, the first woodpecker to come along would destroy civilization. -- Gerald Weinberg attributed with the quote in: Murali Chemuturi (2010) Mastering Software Quality Assurance: Best Practices, Tools and Technique for Software Developers. p.ix
If C++ has taught me one thing, it's this: Just because the system is consistent doesn't mean it's not the work of Satan. -- Andrew Plotkin
If I have not seen as far as others, it is because giants were standing on my shoulders. -- Hal Abelson
I find languages that support just one programming paradigm constraining. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
If two people write exactly the same program, each should be put into microcode and then they certainly won't be the same. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
If we believe in data structures, we must believe in independent (hence simultaneous) processing. For why else would we collect items within a structure? Why do we tolerate languages that give us the one without the other? -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
If you can imagine a society in which the computer-robot is the only menial, you can imagine anything. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
If you have a procedure with ten parameters, you probably missed some. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
If you like C++, you don't know C++. There's a mutual exclusion going on here, and I've yet to see a counter-example other than possibly a few of the members of the standards committee. -- ssylvan in reddit.
If your computer speaks English, it was probably made in Japan. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
If you're willing to restrict the flexibility of your approach, you can almost always do something better. -- John Carmack
If you think C++ is not overly complicated, just what is a protected abstract virtual base pure virtual private destructor and when was the last time you needed one? -- Tom Cargill
If you want to improve your software, don't test more; develop better. -- Steve C McConnell
I hope we'll be able to solve these problems before we leave. -- Paul Erdos
I invented the term Object-Oriented, and I can tell you I did not have C++ in mind. -- Alan Kay
I may be biased, but I tend to find a much lower tendency among female programmers to be dishonest about their skills, and thus do not say they know C++ when they are smart enough to realize that that would be a lie for all but perhaps 5 people on this planet. -- Erik Naggum
In a 5 year period we get one superb programming language. Only we can't control when the 5 year period will be. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
In computing, invariants are ephemeral. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
In computing, the mean time to failure keeps getting shorter. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
In computing, turning the obvious into the useful is a living definition of the word "frustration". -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
In English every word can be verbed. Would that it were so in our programming languages. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
In essence, the problem is that, "if it walks like a duck and quacks like a duck", it could be a dragon doing a duck impersonation. You may not always want to let dragons into a pond, even if they can impersonate a duck. -- Alex Martelli
In man-machine symbiosis, it is man who must adjust: The machines can't. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
In programming, as in everything else, to be in error is to be reborn. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
In programming, everything we do is a special case of something more general -- and often we know it too quickly. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
In seeking the unattainable, simplicity only gets in the way. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Inside every large problem is a small problem struggling to get out. -- Niklaus Wirth
In software systems, it is often the early bird that makes the worm. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Interfaces keep things tidy, but don't accelerate growth: Functions do. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
In the long run every program becomes rococo - then rubble. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Is it possible that software is not like anything else, that it is meant to be discarded: that the whole point is to see it as a soap bubble? -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
It goes against the grain of modern education to teach children to program. What fun is there in making plans, acquiring discipline in organizing thoughts, devoting attention to detail and learning to be self-critical? -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
It has been discovered that C++ provides a remarkable facility for concealing the trival details of a program -- such as where its bugs are. -- David Keppel
I think it is inevitable that people program poorly. Training will not substantially help matters. We have to learn to live with it. -- Alan Perlis
I think maybe the guy who invented C++ doesn't know the difference between increment and excrement. -- smcameron
It is better to have 100 functions operate on one data structure than 10 functions on 10 data structures. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
It is easier to change the specification to fit the program than vice versa. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
It is easier to write an incorrect program than understand a correct one. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
It is easy to study the rules of overloading and of templates without noticing that together they are one of the keys to elegant and efficient type-safe containers. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
It is nice to know that the computer understands the problem. But I would like to understand it too. -- Eugene Wigner
It is not a language's weakness but its strengths that control the gradient of its change: Alas, a language never escapes its embryonic sac. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
It is not the computer's fault that Maxwell's equations are not adequate to design the electric motor. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
It is the user who should parameterize procedures, not their creators. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
It's better to wait for a productive programmer to become available than it is to wait for the first available programmer to become productive. -- Steve C McConnell
It's difficult to extract sense from strings, but they're the only communication coin we can count on. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
It's hard enough to find an error in your code when you're looking for it; it's even harder when you've assumed your code is error-free. -- Steve C McConnell
It's not that Perl programmers are idiots, it's that the language rewards idiotic behavior in a way that no other language or tool has ever done. -- Erik Naggum, comp.lang.lisp
It's OK to figure out murder mysteries, but you shouldn't need to figure out code. You should be able to read it. -- Steve C McConnell
It's time for software development to grow up. -- Steve C McConnell
I would encourage nonproprietary standards for tools and libraries. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
Java is, in many ways, C++--. -- Michael Feldman
Java, the best argument for Smalltalk since C++. -- Frank Winkler
[keeping somebody] from using C++ makes me feel like I saved a life -- aiju
Life is too long to know C++ well. -- Erik Naggum
Like punning, programming is a play on words. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
{Major-Willard} C++ damages the brain ... -- EWD
Make no mistake about it: Computers process numbers - not symbols. We measure our understanding (and control) by the extent to which we can arithmetize an activity. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Making something variable is easy. Controlling duration of constancy is the trick. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Mathematicians stand on each others' shoulders and computer scientists stand on each others' toes. -- Richard Hamming
Most people find the concept of programming obvious, but the doing impossible. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Motto for a research laboratory: What we work on today, others will first think of tomorrow. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
My brain is open. -- Paul Erdos
My list of basic tools is a partial answer to the question about what has changed: Over the past few years, large numbers of programmers have come to depend on elaborate tools to interface code with systems facilities. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
Never trouble trouble till trouble troubles you. -- John Adams
Nobody really knows what the Bourne shell's grammar is. Even examination of the source code is little help. -- Tom Duff
Nothing is more dangerous than an idea if it's the only one you have. -- Emil-Auguste Chartier, Propos sur la religion, 1938
Often it is the means that justify the ends: Goals advance technique and technique survives even when goal structures crumble. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
*Oh, definitely. C++ may not be the worst programming language ever created, but without a doubt it's the worst ever to be taken seriously. -- Mason Wheeler
Once you understand how to write a program get someone else to write it. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
One can only display complex information in the mind. Like seeing, movement or flow or alteration of view is more important than the static picture, no matter how lovely. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
One can't proceed from the informal to the formal by formal means. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
One does not learn computing by using a hand calculator, but one can forget arithmetic. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
One man's constant is another man's variable. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
One of my most productive days was throwing away 1000 lines of code. -- Ken Thompson
Optimization hinders evolution. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Over the centuries the Indians developed sign language for communicating phenomena of interest. Programmers from different tribes (FORTRAN, LISP, ALGOL, SNOBOL, etc.) could use one that doesn't require them to carry a blackboard on their ponies. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
People who passionately want to believe that the world is basically simple react to this with a fury that goes beyond what I consider appropriate for discussing a programming language. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
Perhaps if we wrote programs from childhood on, as adults we'd be able to read them. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Personally, I look forward to better tools for analyzing C++ source code. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
PL/I and Ada started out with all the bloat, were very daunting languages, and got bad reputations (deservedly). C++ has shown that if you slowly bloat up a language over a period of years, people don't seem to mind as much. -- James Hague
Programmers are not to be measured by their ingenuity and their logic but by the completeness of their case analysis. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Programming is an unnatural act. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Prolonged contact with the computer turns mathematicians into clerks and vice versa. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Property is a nuisance. -- Paul Erdos
Purely applicative languages are poorly applicable. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
qmon is for sissies, real men use command-line tools, really manly men use qconf -[admr]attr, [Chuck Norris / Jack Bower] uses qconf -purge -- Daniel Templeton
Quality is value to some person(s). -- Gerald Weinberg cited in Matthew Heusser, Govind Kulkarni (2011) How to Reduce the Cost of Software Testing. p.95
Recursion is the root of computation since it trades description for time. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Re graphics: A picture is worth 10K words - but only those to describe the picture. Hardly any sets of 10K words can be adequately described with pictures. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Simplicity does not precede complexity, but follows it. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Simplicity is prerequisite for reliability. -- Edsger W. Dijkstra
Software is under a constant tension. Being symbolic it is arbitrarily perfectible; but also it is arbitrarily changeable. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
So many good ideas are never heard from again once they embark in a voyage on the semantic gulf. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Some programming languages manage to absorb change, but withstand progress. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Sometimes I think the only universal in the computing field is the fetch-execute cycle. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Structured Programming supports the law of the excluded muddle. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Symmetry is a complexity-reducing concept (co-routines include subroutines); seek it everywhere. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Syntactic sugar causes cancer of the semicolon. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Systems have sub-systems and sub-systems have sub-systems and so on ad infinitum -- which is why we're always starting over. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Television is something the Russians invented to destroy American education. -- Paul Erdos
The best book on programming for the layman is "Alice in Wonderland"; but that's because it's the best book on anything for the layman. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
The cheapest, fastest, and most reliable components are those that aren't there. -- Gordon Bell
The computer is the ultimate polluter: its feces are indistinguishable from the food it produces. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
The computer reminds one of Lon Chaney -- it is the machine of a thousand faces. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
The computing scientist's main challenge is not to get confused by the complexities of his own making. -- E. W. Dijkstra
The cybernetic exchange between man, computer and algorithm is like a game of musical chairs: The frantic search for balance always leaves one of the three standing ill at ease. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
The debate rages on: is PL/I Bachtrian or Dromedary? -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
The eleventh commandment was "Thou Shalt Compute" or "Thou Shalt Not Compute" - I forget which. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
The goal of computation is the emulation of our synthetic abilities, not the understanding of our analytic ones. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
The job of the average manager requires a shift in focus every few minutes. The job of the average software developer requires that the developer not shift focus more often than every few hours. -- Steve C McConnell
The key to performance is elegance, not battalions of special cases. -- Jon Bentley and Doug McIlroy
The last good thing written in C++ was the Pachelbel Canon. -- Jerry Olson
The most effective debugging tool is still careful thought, coupled with judiciously placed print statements. -- Brian W. Kernighan, in the paper Unix for Beginners (1979)
The most important computer is the one that rages in our skulls and ever seeks that satisfactory external emulator. The standarization of real computers would be a disaster - and so it probably won't happen. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
The most reliable components are the ones you leave out. -- Gordon Bell
The only constructive theory connecting neuroscience and psychology will arise from the study of software. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
The problem is not the problem. The problem is your attitude about the problem. -- Captain Jack Sparrow
The problem with quick and dirty, as some people have said, is that the dirty remains long after the quick has been forgotten. -- Steve C McConnell
The proof of a system's value is its existence. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
There are only two things wrong with C++: The initial concept and the implementation. -- Bertrand Meyer
There are three signs of senility. The first sign is that a man forgets his theorems. The second sign is that he forgets to zip up. The third sign is that he forgets to zip down. -- Paul Erdos
There are two ways of constructing a software design: One way is to make it so simple that there are obviously no deficiencies and the other way is to make it so complicated that there are no obvious deficiencies. -- C.A.R. Hoare, The 1980 ACM Turing Award Lecture
There are two ways to write error-free programs; only the third one works. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
There will always be things we wish to say in our programs that in all known languages can only be said poorly. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
The standard library saves programmers from having to reinvent the wheel. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
The string is a stark data structure and everywhere it is passed there is much duplication of process. It is a perfect vehicle for hiding information. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
The use of a program to prove the 4-color theorem will not change mathematics - it merely demonstrates that the theorem, a challenge for a century, is probably not important to mathematics. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Think of all the psychic energy expended in seeking a fundamental distinction between "algorithm" and "program". -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Think of it! With VLSI we can pack 100 ENIACS in 1 sq. cm. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
This evolution may compromise Java's claim of being simpler than C++, but my guess is that the effort will make Java a better language than it is today. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
Though the Chinese should adore APL, it's FORTRAN they put their money on. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Thus, the standard library will serve as both a tool and as a teacher. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
To me C++ seems to be a language that has sacrificed orthogonality and elegance for random expediency. -- Meilir Page-Jones
To understand a program you must become both the machine and the program. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Unix is a junk OS designed by a committee of PhDs. -- Dave Cutler
Unix is simple. It just takes a genius to understand its simplicity. -- Dennis Ritchie
UNIX was not designed to stop its users from doing stupid things, as that would also stop them from doing clever things. -- Doug Gwyn
We are on the verge: Today our program proved Fermat's next-to-last theorem. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
We are uncovering better ways of developing software by doing it and helping others do it. -- Manifesto for Agile Software Development, 2001
[...] we have come to value: 1. Individuals and interactions over processes and tools. -- Manifesto for Agile Software Development, 2001
[...] we have come to value: 2. Working software over comprehensive documentation. -- Manifesto for Agile Software Development, 2001
[...] we have come to value: 3. Customer collaboration over contract negotiation. -- Manifesto for Agile Software Development, 2001
[...] we have come to value: 4. Responding to change over following a plan. -- Manifesto for Agile Software Development, 2001
We have the mini and the micro computer. In what semantic niche would the pico computer fall? -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
We kid ourselves if we think that the ratio of procedure to data in an active data-base system can be made arbitrarily small or even kept small. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
We toast the Lisp programmer who pens his thoughts within nests of parentheses. -- Alan Perlis
We will never run out of things to program as long as there is a single program around. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
What is the difference between a Turing machine and the modern computer? It's the same as that between Hillary's ascent of Everest and the establishment of a Hilton hotel on its peak. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
When a professor insists computer science is X but not Y, have compassion for his graduate students. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Whenever I solve a difficult problem with C++, I feel like I've won a bar fight. -- Michael Fogus
Whenever the C++ language designers had two competing ideas as to how they should solve some problem, they said, "OK, we'll do them both". So the language is too baroque for my taste. -- Donald E Knuth
Whenever two programmers meet to criticize their programs, both are silent. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
When in doubt, use brute force. -- Ken Thompson
When I see a bird that walks like a duck and swims like a duck and quacks like a duck, I call that bird a duck. -- James Whitcomb Riley
When someone says "I want a programming language in which I need only say what I wish done," give him a lollipop. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
When we understand knowledge-based systems, it will be as before -- except our fingertips will have been singed. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
When we write programs that "learn", it turns out that we do and they don't. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth. -- Sherlock Holmes
Wherever there is modularity there is the potential for misunderstanding: Hiding information implies a need to check communication. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Why did the Roman Empire collapse? What is Latin for office automation? -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
With C++, it's possible to make code that isn't understandable by anyone, with C, this is very hard. -- Mike Abrash
Within a computer natural language is unnatural. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
Within C++, there is a much smaller and cleaner language struggling to get out. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
With the increasing importance of standards for system-level objects such as COM and CORBA, it is particularly important that the C++ bindings to those be clean, well documented, and simple to use. -- Bjarne Stroustrup
You can measure a programmer's perspective by noting his attitude on the continuing vitality of FORTRAN. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
You can't communicate complexity, only an awareness of it. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
You think you know when you can learn, are more sure when you can write, even more when you can teach, but certain when you can program. -- Alan J. Perlis, Epigrams in Programming, 1982
1. Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software. -- Principles behind the Agile Manifesto
2. Welcome changing requirements, even late in development. Agile processes harness change for the customer's competitive advantage. -- Principles behind the Agile Manifesto
3. Deliver working software frequently, from a couple of weeks to a couple of months, with a preference to the shorter timescale. -- Principles behind the Agile Manifesto
4. Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project. -- Principles behind the Agile Manifesto
5. Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them the environment and support they need, and trust them to get the job done. -- Principles behind the Agile Manifesto
6. The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation. -- Principles behind the Agile Manifesto
7. Working software is the primary measure of progress. -- Principles behind the Agile Manifesto
8. Agile processes promote sustainable development. The sponsors, developers, and users should be able to maintain a constant pace indefinitely. -- Principles behind the Agile Manifesto
9. Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design enhances agility. -- Principles behind the Agile Manifesto
10. Simplicity -- the art of maximizing the amount of work not done -- is essential. -- Principles behind the Agile Manifesto
11. The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams. -- Principles behind the Agile Manifesto
12. At regular intervals, the team reflects on how to become more effective, then tunes and adjusts its behavior accordingly. -- Principles behind the Agile Manifesto
21 hours of downtime is a big stick to beat the salesman with -- Bill Ray about the O2 outage
1. Beautiful is better than ugly. -- The Zen of Python, by Tim Peters
2. Explicit is better than implicit. -- The Zen of Python, by Tim Peters
3. Simple is better than complex. -- The Zen of Python, by Tim Peters
4. Complex is better than complicated. -- The Zen of Python, by Tim Peters
5. Flat is better than nested. -- The Zen of Python, by Tim Peters
6. Sparse is better than dense. -- The Zen of Python, by Tim Peters
7. Readability counts. -- The Zen of Python, by Tim Peters
8-9. Special cases aren't special enough to break the rules. Although practicality beats purity. -- The Zen of Python, by Tim Peters
10-11. Errors should never pass silently. Unless explicitly silenced. -- The Zen of Python, by Tim Peters
12. In the face of ambiguity, refuse the temptation to guess. -- The Zen of Python, by Tim Peters
13-14. There should be one -- and preferably only one -- obvious way to do it. Although that way may not be obvious at first unless you're Dutch. -- The Zen of Python, by Tim Peters
15-16. Now is better than never. Although never is often better than *right* now. -- The Zen of Python, by Tim Peters
17. If the implementation is hard to explain, it's a bad idea. -- The Zen of Python, by Tim Peters
18. If the implementation is easy to explain, it may be a good idea. -- The Zen of Python, by Tim Peters
19. Namespaces are one honking great idea -- let's do more of those! -- The Zen of Python, by Tim Peters
A consumer doesn't take anything away: he doesn't actually consume anything. Giving the same thing to a thousand consumers is not really any more expensive than giving it to just one. -- Linus Torvalds
Any program is only as good as it is useful. -- Linus Torvalds
Artists usually don't make all that much money, and they often keep their artistic hobby despite the money rather than due to it. -- Linus Torvalds
Finnish companies tend to be very traditional, not taking many risks. Silicon Valley is completely different: people here really live on the edge. -- Linus Torvalds
Helsinki isn't all that bad. It's a very nice city, and it's cold really only in wintertime. -- Linus Torvalds
I do get my pizzas paid for by Linux indirectly. -- Linus Torvalds
I don't try to be a threat to MicroSoft, mainly because I don't really see MS as competition. Especially not Windows-the goals of Linux and Windows are simply so different. -- Linus Torvalds
If Microsoft ever does applications for Linux it means I've won. -- Linus Torvalds
I'm generally a very pragmatic person: that which works, works. -- Linus Torvalds
In many cases, the user interface to a program is the most important part for a commercial company: whether the programs works correctly or not seems to be secondary. -- Linus Torvalds
In my opinion MS is a lot better at making money than it is at making good operating systems. -- Linus Torvalds
Intelligence is the ability to avoid doing work, yet getting the work done. -- Linus Torvalds
I try to avoid long-range plans and visions - that way I can more easily deal with anything new that comes up. -- Linus Torvalds
Making Linux GPL'd was definitely the best thing I ever did. -- Linus Torvalds
Microsoft isn't evil, they just make really crappy operating systems. -- Linus Torvalds
Most good programmers do programming not because they expect to get paid or get adulation by the public, but because it is fun to program. -- Linus Torvalds
Programmers are in the enviable position of not only getting to do what they want to, but because the end result is so important they get paid to do it. There are other professions like that, but not that many. -- Linus Torvalds
See, you not only have to be a good coder to create a system like Linux, you have to be a sneaky bastard too. -- Linus Torvalds
Software is like sex: it's better when it's free. -- Linus Torvalds
That's what makes Linux so good: you put in something, and that effort multiplies. It's a positive feedback cycle. -- Linus Torvalds
The Linux philosophy is 'Laugh in the face of danger'. Oops. Wrong One. 'Do it yourself'. Yes, that's it. -- Linus Torvalds
The memory management on the PowerPC can be used to frighten small children. -- Linus Torvalds
There are lots of Linux users who don't care how the kernel works, but only want to use it. That is a tribute to how good Linux is. -- Linus Torvalds
When you say 'I wrote a program that crashed Windows,' people just stare at you blankly and say 'Hey, I got those with the system, for free.' -- Linus Torvalds
You won't get sued for anticompetitive behavior. -- Linus Torvalds
Programs must be written for people to read, and only incidentally for machines to execute. -- H. Abelson and G. Sussman (in "The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs)
The computer revolution is a revolution in the way we think and in the way we express what we think. The essence of this change is the emergence of what might best be called procedural epistemology -- the study of the structure of knowledge from an imperative point of view, as opposed to the more declarative point of view taken by classical mathematical subjects. -- H. Abelson and G. Sussman (in "The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs)
We have also obtained a glimpse of another crucial idea about languages and program design. This is the approach of statified design, the notion that a complex system should be structured as a sequence of levels that are described using a sequence of languages. Each level is constructed by combining parts that are regarded as primitive at that level, and the parts constructed at each level are used as primitives at the next level. The language used at each level of a stratified design has primitives, means of combination, and means of abstraction appropriate to that level of detail. -- H. Abelson and G. Sussman (in "The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs)
A common mistake people make when trying to design something completely foolproof is to underestimate the ingenuity of complete fools. -- D. Adams
Good teaching is more a giving of the right questions than a giving of the right answers. -- J. Albers
They know enough who know how to learn -- J. Adams
Computer Science is a science of abstraction -- creating the right model for a problem and devising the appropriate mechanizable techniques to solve it. -- A. Aho and J. Ullman
Each pattern describes a problem which occurs over and over again in our environment, and then describes the core of the solution to that problem, in such a way that you can use this solution a million times over, without ever doing it in the same way twice. -- C. Alexander
Don't worry about people stealing your ideas. If your ideas are any good, you'll have to ram them down people's throats. -- H. Aiken
Eighty percent of success is showing up. -- W. Allen
If you're not failing every now and again, it's a sign you're not doing anything very innovative. -- W. Allen
More is different. -- P. Anderson (attacking the reductionist hypothesis in science, by concluding that quantitatively larger systems can be qualitatively different)
Today, most software exists, not to solve a problem, but to interface with other software. -- I. O. Angell
All programmers are playwrights and all computers are lousy actors. -- Anonymous
Any programming problem can be solved by adding a level of indirection. (also see "Any performance problem..." by M. Haertel). -- Anonymous
Bad code isn't bad, its just misunderstood. -- Anonymous
Debugging is anticipated with distaste, performed with reluctance, and bragged about forever. -- Anonymous
Experience is a poor teacher: it gives its tests before it teaches its lessons. -- Anonymous
If I had eight hours to chop down a tree, I would spend 6 hours sharpening an axe. -- Anonymous
If you understand what you're doing, you're not learning anything. -- Anonymous
In theory, there is no difference between theory and practice, but not in practice. -- Anonymous
It is easier to measure something than to understand what you have measured. -- Anonymous
Measure twice, cut once. -- Anonymous
Microsoft, where quality is job 1.1 -- Anonymous
On a visit to the NASA space center, President Kennedy spoke to a man sweeping up in one of the buildings. "What's your job here?" asked Kennedy. "Well Mr. President," the janitor replied, "I'm helping to put a man on the moon". -- Anonymous
One day a mother comes home from work and asks her son, "What did you do today?" The son replied, "I taught our dog how to play the piano." The mother, incredulous, asked, "Our dog can play the piano?", to which the son laughed and replied, "Of course not mom. I said that I taught him; I didn't say that he learned how." -- Anonymous
Programming languages should be designed not by piling feature on top of feature, but by removing the weaknesses and restrictions that make additional features appear necessary. -- Anonymous, Revised Report on the Algorithmic Language Scheme
Programs for sale: Fast, Reliable, Cheap: choose two. -- Anonymous
Ready, fire, aim (the fast approach to software development). Ready, aim, aim, aim, aim ... (the slow approach to software development). -- Anonymous
Real programmers don't comment their code. If it was hard to write, it should be hard to understand. -- Anonymous
Recurses! Called again. -- Anonymous
The huge printing presses of a major Chicago newspaper began malfunctioning on the Saturday before Christmas, putting all the revenue for advertising that was to appear in the Sunday paper in jeopardy. None of the technicians could track down the problem. Finally, a frantic call was made to the retired printer who had worked with these presses for over 40 years. "We'll pay anything; just come in and fix them," he was told. When he arrived, he walked around for a few minutes, surveying the presses; then he approached one of the control panels and opened it. He removed a dime from his pocket, turned a screw 1/4 of a turn, and said, "The presses will now work correctly." After being profusely thanked, he was told to submit a bill for his work. The bill arrived a few days later, for $10,000.00! Not wanting to pay such a huge amount for so little work, the printer was told to please itemize his charges, with the hope that he would reduce the amount once he had to identify his services. The revised bill arrived: $1.00 for turning the screw; $9,999.00 for knowing which screw to turn. Commentary: most debugging problems are fixed easily; identifying the location of the problem is hard. -- Anonymous
The person who knows HOW will always have a job. The person who knows WHY will always be his/her boss. -- Anonymous
The sooner you get behind in your work, the more time you have to catch up. -- Anonymous
There are only 10 different kinds of people in the world: those who know binary and those who don't. -- Anonymous
Think (design) globally; act (code) locally. -- Anonymous
Think twice, code once. -- Anonymous
Time is an excellent teacher; but eventually it kills all its students. -- Anonymous
Weeks of programming can save you hours of planning. -- Anonymous
When a programming language is created that allows programmers to program in simple English, it will be discovered that programmers cannot speak English. -- Anonymous
Why do we never have time to do it right, but always have time to do it over? -- Anonymous
By viewing the old we learn the new. -- Anonymous Chinese Proverb
Give me a fish and I eat for a day. Teach me to fish and I eat for a lifetime. -- Anonymous Chinese Proverb
He who asks is a fool for five minutes; he who does not ask remains a fool forever. -- Anonymous Chinese Proverb
Teachers open the door, but you must enter by yourself. -- Anonymous Chinese Proverb
Tell me and I forget. Show me and I remember. Involve me and I understand. -- Anonymous Chinese Proverb
The first step towards wisdom is calling things by their right names. -- Anonymous Chinese Proverb
The person who says it cannot be done should not interrupt the person doing it. -- Anonymous Chinese Proverb
He who is ashamed of asking is ashamed of learning. -- Anonymous Danish Proverb
No matter how far down the wrong road you have gone, turn back now. -- Anonymous Turkish Proverb
Those who know, do. Those who understand, teach. -- Aristotle
We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit. -- Aristotle
The most exciting phrase to hear in science -- the one that heralds new discoveries -- is not "Eureka!" but "That's funny...". -- I. Asimov
The Analytical Engine weaves Algebraical patterns just as the Jacquard loom weaves flowers and leaves. -- A. Augusta, Countess of Lovelace, on Babbage's Analytical Engine
On two occasions, I have been asked [by members of Parliament], "Pray, Mr. Babbage, if you put into the machine wrong figures, will the right answers come out?" I am not able to rightly apprehend the kind of confusion of ideas that could provoke such a question. -- C. Babage
I, myself, have had many failures and I've learned that if you are not failing a lot, you are probably not being as creative as you could be -- you aren't stretching your imagination. -- J. Backus
A prudent question is one-half of wisdom. -- F. Bacon
I can only think that the book is read because it deals with the difficulties of schooling, which do not change. Please note: the difficulties, not the problems. Problems are solved or disappear with the revolving times. Difficulities remain. It will always be difficult to teach well, to learn accurately; to read, write, and count readily and competently; to acquire a sense of history and start one's education or anothers. -- J. Barzun ("Begin Here", pp 14),
The American university is built on two false premises: that all teachers must add to the existing stock of knowledge by research, and that all self-respecting institutions fulfill this role only by employing productive scholars... Of course, the teacher must keep reading and thinking abreast of his time, but this does not mean that he must write and publish. The confusion hides a further absurd assumption, which is that when a man writes a scholarly book that reaches a dozen specialists he adds immeasurably to the world's knowledge; whereas if he imparts his thoughts and his reading to one hundred and fifty students every year, he is wasting his time and leaving the world in darkness. One is tempted to ask what blinkered pedant ever launched the notion that students in coming to college seceded from the human race and may therefore be safely left out when knowledge is being broadcast. -- J. Barzun ("Teacher in America"),
The sole justification of teaching, of the school itself, is that the student comes out of it able to do something he could not do before. I say do and not know, because knowledge that doesn't lead to doing something new or doing something better is not knowledge at all. -- J. Barzun ("Begin Here", pp 112),
The truth is, when all is said and done, one does not teach a subject, one teaches a student how to learn it. Teaching may look like administering a dose, but even a dose must be worked on by the body if it is to cure. Each individual must cure his or her own ignorance. -- J. Barzun ("Begin Here", pp 35),
Optimism is an occupational hazard of programming: testing is the treatment. -- K. Beck
Dakin (to Irwin, his teacher): Do you really believe that, sir, or are you just trying to make us think? -- A. Bennet (in "The History Boys")
Walking on water and developing software from a specification are easy if both are frozen. -- E. Berard
More than the act of testing, the act of designing tests is one of the best bug preventers known. The thinking that must be done to create a useful test can discover and eliminate bugs before they are coded - indeed, test-design thinking can discover and eliminate bugs at every stage in the creation of software, from conception to specification, to design, coding and the rest. -- B. Bezier
There is a division in the student population between those who go to college to learn and those who go to college to earn a diploma. -- J. Blau (letter to the editor, Chronicle of Higher Education, May 24, 2002)
It is wrong to think that the task of physics is to find out how nature is. Physics concerns what we say about nature. -- N. Bohr
Opposites are not contradictory but complementary. -- N. Bohr
Software development has been, is, and will likely remain fundamentally hard. Building quality systems involves an essential and irreducible complexity, which is why the entire history of software engineering can be characterized as one of rising levels of abstraction. As such, the task of the software development team is to engineer the illusion of simplicity. Nonetheless, software-intensive systems can amplify human intelligence, but they cannot replace human judgment; software-intensive systems can fuse, co-ordinate, classify, and analyze information, but they cannot create knowledge. In other words, not everything we want to build can be built: there exist pragmatic theoretical and technical limits that make software develpment hard if not impossible. Furthermore, not everything we want to build should be built: there exist moral economic, social, and political limits that govern human industry. From fundamental to human, these are the factors tht define the limits of software, factors that separate our vision from execution. -- G. Booch (in a blurb from a talk, "The Limits of Software")
That language is an instrument of human reason, and not merely a medium for the expression of thought, is a truth generally admitted. -- G. Boole
The greatest obstacle to discovery is not ignorance, but the illusion of knowledge. -- D. Boorstin
The most likely way for the world to be destroyed, most experts agree, is by accident. That's where we come in; we're computer professionals. We cause accidents. -- N. Borenstein
All models are wrong; some models are useful. -- G. Box
Simplicity and flexibility will trump optimization and power in a world where connectivity is the key. -- A. Bosworth (paraphrased by David Bank in Breaking Windows, page 203)
The important thing in science is not so much to obtain new facts as to discover new ways of think about them. -- W. Bragg
Information wants too be free. Information also wants to be expensive. Information wants to be free because it has become so cheap to distribute, copy, and recombine -- too cheap to meter. It wants to be expensive because it can be immeasurably valuable to the recipient. That tension will not go away. It leads to endless wrenching debate about price, copyright, "intellectual property", the moral rightness of casual distribution, because each round of new devices makes the tension worse, not better. -- S. Brand (see the Information Wants to Be Free web page)
It is important that students bring a certain ragamuffin, barefoot irreverence to their studies; they are not here to worship what is known, but to question it. -- J. Bronowski
That is the essence of science: ask an impertinent question, and you are on the way to a pertinent answer. -- J. Bronowski
Welcome to Yale. Yale will be for you and to you what you make of it. Despite the gloom of the times this is not a gloomy place. It is a place where life can have purpose without being a society of driven men and women. It is also a place where there is no escape from argument, for the next person you meet will not be likely to agree with the last person talked to. This is a community which rewards participation but does not expect conformity. This is primarily a place for learning, but not all learning is in books or laboratories or classrooms. You probably have not been as free before. You may not be as free again. Enjoy the privilege of doubt. Make the most of it. -- K. Brewster
Good judgment comes from experience; experience comes from bad judgment. -- F. Brooks
Plan to throw one away; you will anyhow. -- F. Brooks ("The Mythical Man-Month", Chapter 11)
If you plan to throw one away, you will throw away two. -- C. Zerouni
Scientists build to learn; Engineers learn to build. -- F. Brooks
The hardest part of the software task is arriving at a complete and consistent specification, and much of the essence of building a program is in fact the debugging of the specification. -- F. Brooks
The programmer, like the poet, works only slightly removed from pure thought-stuff. He builds castles in the air, from air, creating by exertion of the imagination. Few media of creation are so flexible, so easy to polish and rework, so readily capable of realizing grand conceptual structures. Yet the program construct, unlike the poet's words, is real in the sense that it moves and works, producing visible outputs separate from the construct itself. It prints results, draws pictures, produces sounds, moves arms. The magic of myth and legend has come true in our time. One types the correct incantation on a keyboard, and a display screen comes to life, showing things that never were nor could be. ... The computer resembles the magic of legend in this respect, too. If one character, one pause, of the incantation is not strictly in proper form, the magic doesn't work. Human beings are not accustomed to being perfect, and few areas of human activity demand it. Adjusting to the requirement for perfection is, I think, the most difficult part of learning to program. -- F. Brooks ("The Mythical Man Month", pages 7-8)
Successful software always gets changed. -- F. Brooks
A man's reach should exceed his grasp, or what's heaven for? -- R. Browning
They may forget what you said, but they will never forget how you made them feel. -- C. Buchner
... and then it occurred to me that a computer is a stupid machine with the ability to do incredibly smart things, while computer programmers are smart people with the ability to do incredibly stupid things. They are, in short, a perfect match. -- B. Bryson
Learning how to learn is life's most important skill. -- T. Buzan
The first 90% of the code accounts for the first 90% of the development time. The remaining 10% of the code accounts for the other 90% of the development time. -- T. Cargill
The sooner you start to code, the longer the program will take. -- R. Carlson
The important point is that the cost of adding a feature isn't just the time it takes to code it. The cost also includes the addition of an obstacle to future expansion. Sure, any given feature list can be implemented, given enough coding time. But in addition to coming out late, you will usually wind up with a codebase that is so fragile that new ideas that should be dead-simple wind up taking longer and longer to work into the tangled existing web. The trick is to pick the features that don't fight each other. -- J. Carmack
We think too much about effective methods of teaching and not enough about effective methods of learning. No matter how good teaching may be, each student must take the responsibility for his own education. -- J. Carolus S.J.
In a way, math isn't the art of answering mathematical questions, it is the art of asking the right questions, the questions that give you insight, the ones that lead you in interesting directions, the ones that connect with lots of other interesting questions -- the ones with beautiful answers. -- G. Chaitin (pg. 23, in "Meta Math: The Quest for Omega")
Mathematical truth is not totally objective. If a mathematical statement is false, there will be no proofs, but if it is true, there will be an endless variety of proofs, not just one! Proofs are not impersonal, they express the personality of their creator/discoverer just as much as literary efforts do. If something important is true, there will be many reasons that it is true, many proofs of that fact. Math is the music of reason, and some proofs sound like jazz, others sound like a fugue. Which is better, the jazz or the fugue? Neither: it's all a matter of taste... each proof will emphasize different aspects of the problem, each proof will lead in a different direction. Each one will have different corollaries, different generalizations... Mathematical facts are not isolated, they are woven into a vast spider's web of interconnections. -- G. Chaitin (pg. 23, in "Meta Math: The Quest for Omega")
Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic. -- A. Clarke
We don't have time to stop for gas, we're already late. -- M. Cleron (Commenting on how Software Projects are often Run)
Whenever there is a hard job to be done I assign it to a lazy man; he is sure to find an easy way of doing it. -- W. Chrysler
The real technology -- behind all our other technologies -- is language. It actually creates the world our consciousness lives in. -- A. Codrescu
I hear and I forget; I see and I remember; I do and I understand. -- Confucius
Never hesitate to ask a lesser person. -- Confucius
Press on. Nothing in th world can take the place of persistence. Talent will not; nothing is more common than unsuccessful men with talent. Genius will not; unrewarded genius is almost a proverb. Education alone will not; the world is full of educated derelicts. Persistence and determination alone are omnipotent. -- C. Coolidge
Six jokes: "What do you get when you cross a computer with an airplane? What do you get when you cross a computer with a camera? What do you get when you cross a computer with an alarm clock? What do you get when you cross a computer with a car? What do you get when you cross a computer with a bank? What do you get when you cross a computer with a warship?" In all six cases the answer is "A computer." [Cooper illustrates how the nature of these systems becomes dominated by the nature of their computer components] -- A. Cooper (I'm paraphrasing some pictures and text appearing in "The Inmates are Running the Asylum")
The value of a prototype is in the education it gives you, not in the code itself. -- A. Cooper (in "The Inmates are Running the Asylum")
When the words are fuzzy, the programmers reflexively retreat to the most precise method of articulation available: source code. Although there is nothing more precise than code, there is also nothing more permanent or resistant to change. So the situation frequently crops up where nomenclature confusion drives programmers to begin coding prematurely, and that code becomes the de facto design, regardless of its appropriateness or correctness. -- A. Cooper (in "The Inmates are Running the Asylum")
Doing more things faster is no substitute for doing the right things. -- S. R. Covey
The generation of random numbers is too important to be left to chance. -- R. Coveyou
If you don't think carefully, you might believe that programming is just typing statements in a programming language. -- W. Cunningham
Who dares to teach must never cease to learn. -- J.C. Dana
Every now and then go away, have a little relaxation, for when you come back to your work your judgment will be surer. Go some distance away because then the work appears smaller and more of it can be taken in at a glance and a lack of harmony and proportion is more readily seen. -- L. Da Vinci
Simplicity is the ultimate sophistication. -- L. Da Vinci
If you cannot describe what you are doing as a process, you don't know what you're doing. -- W. E. Deming
Question authority; but, raise your hand first. -- A. Dershowitz
One can think effectively only when one is willing to endure suspense and to undergo the trouble of searching. -- J. Dewey
As long as there were no machines, programming was no problem at all; when we had a few weak computers, programming became a mild problem, and now [1972] that we have gigantic computers, programming has become a gigantic problem. As the power of available machines grew by a factor of more than a thousand, society's ambition to apply these new machines grew in proportion, and it was the poor programmer who found his job in this exploded field of tension between the ends and the means. The increased power of the hardware, together with the perhaps more dramatic increase in its reliability, made solutions feasible that the programmer had not dared to dream about a few years before. And now, a few years later, he had to dream about them and even worse, he had to transform such dreams into reality! It is no wonder that we found ourselves in a software crisis -- E. Dijkstra (The Humble Programmer, "ACM Turing Award Lectures: The First 25 Years", Addison-Wesley, 1987, pages 17-32)
A most important, but also most elusive, aspect of any tool is its influence on the habits of those who train themselves in its use. If the tool is a programming language this influence is, whether we like it or not, an influence on our thinking habits. ... A programming language is a tool that has profound influence on our thinking habits. -- E. Dijkstra
Being abstract is something profoundly different from being vague... The purpose of abstraction is not to be vague, but to create a new semantic level in which one can be absolutely precise. -- E. Dijkstra
Besides a mathematical inclination, an exceptionally good mastery of one's native tongue is the most vital asset of a competent programmer. -- E. Dijkstra
Computer Science is no more about computers than astronomy is about telescopes. -- E. Dijkstra
If we wish to count lines of code, we should not regard them as lines produced but as lines spent. -- E. Dijkstra
John von Neumann draws attention to what seemed to him a contrast. He remarked that for simple mechanisms, it is often easier to describe how they work than what they do, while for more complicated mechanisms, it is usually the other way around. -- E. Dijkstra (Trip Reports, 213)
Object-oriented programming is an exceptionally bad idea which could only have originated in California -- E. Dijkstra (note: OOP originated in Norway, quite near Holland, Dijkstra's home)
... our intellectual powers are rather geared to master static relations and that our powers to visualize processes evolving in time are relatively poorly developed. For that reason we should do (as wise programmers aware of our limitations) our utmost to shorten the conceptual gap between the static program and the dynamic process, to make the correspondence between the program (spread out in text space) and the process (spread out in time) as trivial as possible. -- E. Dijkstra (in "Goto Considered Harmful")
Progress is possible only if we train ourselves to think about programs without thinking of them as pieces of executable code. -- E. Dijkstra
... Simplifications have had a much greater long-range scientific impact than individual feats of ingenuity. The opportunity for simplification is very encouraging, because in all examples that come to mind the simple and elegant systems tend to be easier and faster to design and get right, more efficient in execution, and much more reliable than the more contrived contraptions that have to be debugged into some degree of acceptability. ... Simplicity and elegance are unpopular because they require hard work and discipline to achieve and education to be appreciated. -- E. Dijkstra (The Tide, not the waves; in Denning/Metcalfe: Beyond Calculation, Springer-Verlag 1997)
The tools we use have a profound (and devious!) influence on our thinking habits, and, therefore, on our thinking abilities. -- E. Dijkstra
Testing can show the presence of errors, but not their absence. -- E. Dijkstra
The competent programmer is fully aware of the strictly limited size of his own skull; therefore he approaches the programming task in full humility, and among other things he avoids clever tricks like the plague. -- E. Dijkstra (in "The Humble Programmer", his 1972 Turing Award Lecture)
The art of programming is the art of organizing complexity, of mastering multitude and avoiding its bastard chaos. -- E. Dijkstra (in "Notes on Structured Programming")
We are all shaped by the tools we use, in particular: the formalisms we use shape our thinking habits, for better or for worse, and that means that we have to be very careful in the choice of what we learn and teach, for unlearning is not really possible. -- E. Dijkstra (in Answers to Questions from Students of Software Engineering)
Yes, I share your concern: how to program well -- though a teachable topic -- is hardly taught. The situation is similar to that in mathematics, where the explicit curriculum is confined to mathematical results; how to do mathematics is something the student must absorb by osmosis, so to speak. One reason for preferring symbol-manipulating, calculating arguments is that their design is much better teachable than the design of verbal/pictorial arguments. Large-scale introduction of courses on such calculational methodology, however, would encounter unsurmountable political problems. -- E. Dijkstra (in Answers to Questions from Students of Software Engineering)
Text is linear; it is black and white; it doesn't zoom around the page in 3-D; it isn't intelligent by itself; in fact, in terms of immediate reaction it is quite boring. I can't imagine a single preliterate was ever wowed at the first sight of text, and yet text has been the basis of arguably the most fundamental intellectual transformation of the human species. It and its subforms, such as algebra, have made science education for all a plausible goal. -- A.diSessa ("Changing Minds: Computers, Learning, and Literacy", MIT Press, 2000; page 112)
There is nothing so useless as doing efficiently that which should not be done at all. -- P. Drucker
The first step in fixing a broken program is getting it to fail repeatably [on the simplest example possible]. -- T. Duff
It's supposed to be hard! If it wasn't hard, everyone would do it. The hard... is what makes it great!" -- J. Dugan (said by Tom Hanks' character in "A League of Their Own" in response to a complaint from one of his ball players)
Genius is 1 percent inspiration and 99 percent perspiration. As a result, genius is often a talented person who has simply done all of his homework. -- T. Edison
Everything should be made as simple as possible, but not simpler. -- A. Einstein
Example isn't another way to teach. It is the only way to teach. -- A. Einstein
If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough. -- A. Einstein
Imagination is more important than knowledge. -- A. Einstein
Out of clutter, find simplicity. From discord, find harmony. In the middle of difficulty, lies opportunity. -- A. Einstein
Reinventing the wheel is a process. -- R. Elisha
To arrive at the simple is difficult. -- R. Elisha
Shall I tell you the secret of the true scholar? It is this: every man I meet is my master in some point, and in that I learn of him. -- R.W. Emerson
The proof of a high education is the ability to speak about complex matters as simply as possible. -- R.W. Emerson
The structure of a system reflects the structure of the organization that built it. -- R. Fairley
In those days [batch processing] programmers never even documented their programs, because it was assumed that nobody else would ever use them. Now, however, time-sharing had made exchanging software trivial: you just stored one copy in the public repository and thereby effectively gave it to the world. Immediately people began to document their programs and to think of them as being usable by others. They started to build on each other's work. -- R. Fano (in Waldrop, "The Dream Machine", pp. 232)
Thus, writing a clever piece of code that works is one thing; designing something that can support a long-lasting business is quite another. Commercial software design and production is, or should be, a rigorous, capital-intensive activity. Software products should be based on a broad, deep structure that can support much more than whatever the product contains at any given time. In addition to code that works, you need documentation, help functions, error handling, multi-platform support, and multiple languages. You also need an underlying architecture that allows you to add and change features, purchase and integrated external software components, and allows other software vendors to make their products talk to yours, add customized widgets to it, embed your product inside something larger of their own. A good architecture, one that will carry you for a decade's worth of unpredictable technology and marked changes, take months to develop. But if you skip this step, as Netscape did, you have made a truly Faustian bargain. The problem with this [building just what you need, instead of planning ahead] is that these systems start getting ferociously complicated. It comes time to fix a mistake, add a feature, replace something and you discover that everything is connected to everything else in ways you can't even begin to understand. Because you're doing something more ambitious than the initial academic prototype, it's big enough that you need to partition it across a team. The members of the team need to have a clear idea of how their work relates to everyone else's, and they need to be able to communicate to the testers whose job it is to find errors. Otherwise [in other words], you give the patient a kidney transplant and his heart suddenly fails; then you give him a heart drug, but that makes his lungs collapse. You don't know why, and you're screwed. And then the future comes, and you're really screwed. Later releases of the product inevitably are more complex, because they must continue to support previous version while adding new capabilities. You discover that the original developers have quit or been promoted or have forgotten what they did, and it's time to keep up with the competition by adding new features, supporting more platforms, translating into Japanese, and so forth. The engineering team has to quadruple in size. You start discovering things like three different groups need to change the same piece of code, and each set of changes causes problems for the others, and nobody else can test their work until that piece of code is stable, so a hundred people twiddle their thumbs for a week. Or you want to use an existing function for some new purpose, but you can't isolate it from everything else, so you have to write it all over again. This not only means that you have the extra time and cost of writing and maintaining twice as much code, but you probably have to ensure that the two versions work exactly alike, which they almost certainly won't. With each successive release, these problems get worse. By the time you're on your fifth release, the decision to do your first product the quick and dirty way has probably cost you ten times what it originally saved. A program like Microsoft's Windows 98 is tens of millions of lines of code. Nobody can keep that much complexity in their head or hope to manage it effectively. So you need an architecture that says to everyone, "Here's how this thing works, and to do your part, you need to understand only these five things, and don't you dare touch anything else." -- C. Ferguson (High Stakes, No Prisoners; Times Business Press, page 107-109)
I can live with doubt and uncertainty. I think it's much more interesting to live not knowing than to have answers which might be wrong... In physics the truth is rarely perfectly clear, and that is certainly universally the case in human affairs. Hence, what is not surrounded by uncertainty cannot be the truth. -- R. Feynman (in "Perfectly Reasonable Deviations from the Beaten Track: The Letters of Richard P. Feynman")
If you're teaching a class, you can think about the elementary things that you know very well. These things are kind of fun and delightful. It doesn't do any harm to think them over again. Is there a better way to present them? The elementary things are easy to think about; if you can't think of a new thought, no harm done; what you thought about it before is good enough for the class. If you do think of something new, you're rather pleased that you have a new way of looking at it. The questions of the students are often the source of new research. They often ask profound questions that I've thought about at times and then given up on, so to speak, for a while. It wouldn't do me any harm to think about them again and see if I can go any further now. The students may not be able to see the thing I want to answer, or the subtleties I want to think about, but they remind me of a problem by asking questions in the neighborhood of that problem. It's not so easy to remind yourself of these things. -- R. Feynman (from "The Dignified Professor" in "Surely You're Joking Mr. Feynman: pg. 166)
Precise language is not the problem. Clear language is the problem. -- R. Feynman
The inside of a computer is as dumb as hell but it goes like mad! -- R. Feynman
What I cannot create I do not understand. -- R. Feynman
When the problem [quantum chromodynamics] is finally solved, it will all be by imagination. Then there will be some big thing about the great way it was done. But it's simple -- it will all be by imagination, and persistence. -- R. Feynman (in Mlodinow's "Feynman's Rainbow")
When a Caltech student asked the eminent cosmologist Michael Turner what his "bias" was in favoring one or another particle as a likely candidate to compromise dark matter in the universe, Feynman snapped, "Why do you want to know his bias? Form your own bias!" -- R. Feynman (related by Timothy Ferris in "Perfectly Reasonable Deviations from the Beaten Track: The Letters of Richard P. Feynman")
There does not now, nor will there ever exist, a programming language in which it is the least bit hard to write bad programs. -- L. Flon
An engineer can do for a nickel what any damn fool can do for a dollar. -- H. Ford
Education's purpose is to replace an empty mind with an open one. -- M. Forbes
Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand. -- M. Fowler, "Refactoring: Improving the Design of Existing Code"
[Describing JUnit] Never in the field of program testing, was so much owed by so many to so few lines of code. -- M. Fowler (apologizing to Winston Churchill)
Awaken people's curiosity. It is enough to open minds, do not overload them. Put there just a spark. -- A. France
Simplicity is the soul of efficiency. -- A. Freeman (in The Eye of Osiris)
When I am working on a problem, I never think about beauty. I think only of how to solve the problem. But when I have finished, if the solution is not beautiful, I know it is wrong. -- B. Fuller
The biggest difference between time and space is that you can't reuse time. -- M. Furst
Habitability is the characteristic of source code that enables programmers coming to the code later in its life to understand its construction and intentions and to change it comfortably and confidently... Software needs to be habitable because it always has to change... Programs are written and maintained, bugs are fixed, features are added, performance is tuned, and a whole variety of changes are made both by the original and new programming team members... What is important is that it be easy for programmers to come up to speed with the code, to be able to navigate through it effectively, to be able to understand what changes to make, and to be able to make them safely and correctly. -- R. Gabriel (Patterns of Software, Oxford Press 1996)
All truths are easy to understand once they are discovered; the point is to discover them. -- G. Galilei
A complex system that works in invariably found to have evolved from a simple system that worked. -- J. Gall
An excellent plumber is infinitely more admirable than an incompetent philosopher. The society that scorns excellence in plumbing because plumbing is a humble activity and tolerates shoddiness in philosophy because it is exalted activity will have neither good plumbing or good philosophy. Neither its pipes or its theories will hold water. -- J. Gardner
640K [of main memory] ought to be enough for anybody. -- W. Gates (Founder and CEO Microsoft), 1981 - disclaimed
A great lathe operator commands several times the wage of an average lathe operator, but a great writer of software code is worth 10,000 times the price of an average software writer. -- W. Gates
The best way to prepare [to be a programmer] is to write programs, and to study great programs that other people have written. In my case, I went to the garbage cans at the Computer Science Center and fished out listings of their operating systems. -- W. Gates
We flew down weekly to meet with IBM, but they thought the way to measure software was the amount of code we wrote, when really the better the software, the fewer lines of code. -- W. Gates
It is not knowledge, but the act of learning, not possession, but the act of getting there which generates the greatest satisfaction. -- F. Gauss
Beauty is more important in computing than anywhere else in technology because software is so complicated. Beauty is the ultimate defense against complexity. ... The geniuses of the computer field, on the other hand, are the people with the keenest aesthetic senses, the ones who are capable of creating beauty. Beauty is decisive at every level: the most important interfaces, the most important programming languages, the winning algorithms are the beautiful ones. -- D. Gelernter ("Machine Beauty", Basic Books, 1998)
Good programmers know what's beautiful and bad ones don't. -- D. Gelernter ("Machine Beauty", Basic Books, 1998)
Object-oriented programming as it emerged in Simula 67 allows software structure to be based on real-world structures, and gives programmers a powerful way to simplify the design and construction of complex programs. -- D. Gelernter ("Machine Beauty", Basic Books, 1998)
One of the principal objects of theoretical research in any department of knowledge is to find the point of view from which the subject appears in its greatest simplicity. -- J. W. Gibbs
Vague and nebulous is the beginning of all things, but not their end. -- K. Gibran
At the source of every error which is blamed on the computer, you will find at least two human errors, one of which is the error of blaming it on the computer. -- T. Gilb (in "Laws of Unreliability", Datamation March 1975)
Indirection is the right direction. -- A. Glew
Never put off until run time what can be done at compile time. -- A. Glew
Always code as if the guy who ends up maintaining your code will be a violent psychopath who knows where you live. -- M. Golding
This attitude [the abstract method in mathematics] can be encapsulated in the following slogan: a mathematical object is what it does. -- T. Gowers (in "Mathematics: A Very Short Introduction pg. 18)
A really good language should be both clean and dirty: cleanly designed, with a small core of well understood and highly orthogonal operators, but dirty in the sense that it lets hackers have their way with it. ... A real hacker's language will always have a slightly raffish character. -- P. Graham (in "Hackers and Painters" pg. 204)
Fixing fresh bugs is easier than fixing old ones. It's usually fairly quick to find a bug in code you just wrote. When it turns up you often know what's wrong before you even look at the source, because you were already worrying about it subconsciously. Fixing a bug in something you wrote six months ago (the average case if you release once a year) is a lot more work. And since you don't understand the code as well, you're more likely to fix it in an ugly way, or even introduce more bugs. When you catch bugs early, you also get fewer compound bugs. Compound bugs are two separate bugs that interact: you trip going downstairs, and when you reach for the handrail it come off in your hand. In software this kind of bug is the hardest to find, and also tends to have the worst consequences. The traditional "break everything and then filter out the bugs" approach inherently yields a lot of compound bugs. And software released in a series of small chances inherently tends not to. The floors are constantly being swept clean of any loose objects that might later get stuck to something. -- P. Graham (in "Hackers and Painters" pg. 65-66)
Great software, likewise, requires a fanatical devotion to beauty. If you look inside good software, you find that parts that no one is ever supposed to see are beautiful too. When it comes to code I behave in a way that would make me eligible for prescription drugs if I approached everyday life the same way. It drives me crazy to see code that's badly indented, or that uses ugly variable names. -- P. Graham (in "Hackers and Painters" pg. 29)
Imagine the kind of conversation you would have with someone so far away that there was a transmission delay of one minute. Now imagine speaking to someone in the next room. You wouldn't just have the same conversation faster, you would have a different kind of conversation. In Lisp, developing software is like speaking face-to-face. You can test code as you're writing it. And instant turnaround has just as dramatic an effect on development as it does on conversation. You don't just write the same program faster; you write a different kind of program. -- P. Graham (in "On Lisp")
The difference between design and research seems to be a question of the good versus the new. Design doesn't have to be new, but it has to be good. Research doesn't have to be good, but it has to be new. I think these two paths converge at the top: the best design surpasses its predecessors by using new ideas, and the best research solves problems that are not only new, but worth solving. So ultimately design and research are aiming for the same destination, just approaching it from different directions. -- P. Graham (in "Hackers and Painters" footnote 9, pg. 224)
The way to make programs easy to read is not to stuff them with comments... A good programming language ought to be better for explaining software than English. You should only need comments when there is some kind of kludge you need to warn readers about, just as on a road there are only arrows on parts with unexpectedly sharp curves. -- P. Graham (in "Hackers and Painters" footnote 9, pg. 224)
You should figure our programs as you're writing them, just as writers and painters and architects do. Realizing this [programming as sketching] has real implications for software design. It means that a programming language should, above all, be malleable. A programming language is for thinking of programs, not for expressing programs you've already thought of. It should be a pencil, not pen. -- P. Graham (in "Hackers and Painters")
Remember too that languages are not primarily a form for finished programs, but something that programs have to be developed in. -- P. Graham (in "Hackers and Painters")
A good programming language should, like oil paint, make it easy to change your mind. -- P. Graham (in "Hackers and Painters")
Paintings usually begin with a sketch. Gradually the details get filled in. But it is not merely a process of filling in. Sometimes the original plans turn out to be mistaken. Countless paintings, when you look at them in x-rays, turn out to have limbs that have been moved or facial features that have been readjusted. -- P. Graham (in "Hackers and Painters")
So the test of a language is not simply how clean the finished program looks in it, but how clean the path to the finished program was. -- P. Graham (in "Hackers and Painters")
What made oil paint so exciting, when it first became popular in the fifteenth century, was that you could make the finished work from the prototype. You could make a preliminary drawing if you wanted to, but you weren't held to it; you could work out all the details, and even make major changes as you finished the painting. You can do this with software too. A prototype doesn't have to be just a model; you can refine it into the finished product. ... it's good for morale. -- P. Graham (in "Hackers and Painters")
Building something by gradually refining a prototype is good for morale because it keeps you engaged. In software, my rule is: always have working code. If you're writing something you'll be able to test in an hour, you have the prospect of an immediate reward to motivate you. -- P. Graham (in "Hackers and Painters")
Incidentally, when we're faced with a "prove or disprove," we're usually better off trying first to disprove with a counterexample, for two reasons: A disproof is potentially easier (we need just one counterexample); and nitpicking arouses our creative juices. Even if the given assertion is true, our search for a counterexample often leads to a proof, as soon as we see why a counterexample is impossible. Besides, it's healthy to be skeptical. -- R. Graham, D. Knuth and O. Patashnik (in "Concrete Mathematics: A Foundation for Computer Science")
Any sufficiently complicated C or Fortran program contains an ad hoc informally specified bug-ridden slow implementation of half of Lisp. -- P. Greenspun
Any performance problem can be solved by removing a level of indirection. (also see "Any programming problem..." by Anonymous). -- M. Haertel
The tendency to err that programmers have been noticed to share with other human beings has often been treated as though it were an awkwardness attendant upon programming's adolescence, which like acne would disappear with the craft's coming of age. It has proved otherwise. -- M. Halpern
The purpose of computing is insight, not numbers. -- R. Hamming
The mathematician's patterns, like those of the painter's or the poet's, the ideas, like the colours or words, must fit together in a harmonious way. There is no permanent place in this world for ugly mathematics. -- G.H. Hardy (in "A Mathematician's Apology")
Programming is an explanatory activity. -- R. Harper
It is very interesting to me how quickly the class has divided up into three factions. One faction being the students who sit in the back of the class, given up sitting in their assigned seats, preparing the cases. What is it, only October? They've already given up trying -- the cowards. The second group are the ones who won't raise their hands or volunteer an answer, but will try when they're called upon. That's where I am right now, living in a state of constant fear. And then there's the third echelon: the upper echelon; the volunteers. They raise their hands in class. They thrust themselves into the fray. I don't think they're smarter than anyone else, but they have courage. And, they'll achieve the final recognition, that teachers will get to know their names, and they'll get better grades. The past couple weeks I've been preparing to enter the upper echelon, and this weekend -- if I can get all my work done -- I'm going to enter it Monday morning, in Kingsfield's contract law class. -- James Hart (a law student in "The Paper Chase")
[Breaking into the "red" room in the Harvard law library, which contains the notes of Harvard professors from their school days, and drafts of their articles and books] Do you realize what this is? This is it. This is the unbroken chain. The ageless passing of wisdom. Hey [what is it?] listen to this. "Kingsfield, Charles W. notes on contract law in the course on contracts by Professor Williston at the Harvard Law School, 1927". What the hell is it. They're just notes: and they look just like mine. Look [reading from Kingsfield's notes]. "Questions: Does everybody have a contract to obey everybody else's rights. What is a contract? What do you owe to others?" Look, there are even doodles. [C'mon, let's get outta here.] Wait, wait. "Can we make a contract with G-d that is biding to man? ... After all, I am almost the living extension of the old judges. Where would they be without me. I carry in my mind the cases they wrote. Where the hell would they be if it wasn't for me? Who would hang their pictures if there were no law students? It's hard being the living extension of tradition." -- James Hart (a law student in "The Paper Chase")
There are features that should not be used. There are concepts that should not be exploited. There are problems that should not be solved. There are programs that should not be written. -- R. Harter
PROBLEMS Problems worthy of attack prove their worth by hitting back. -- P.Hein (in "Grooks")
THE ROAD TO WISDOM The road to wisdom? - Well, it's plain and simple to express: Err and err and err again but less and less and less. -- P.Hein (in "Grooks")
The one who insists on never uttering an error must remain silent. -- W. Heisenberg
The speed of a non-working program is irrelevant. -- S. Heller (in "Efficient C/C++ Programming")
Refactoring provides enough energy to a system for it to relax into a new and more comfortable state, a new local minimum. The effect of refactoring commonality is to tame the complexity of your system. -- K. Henney (in Minimalism: The Imperial Clothing Crisis)
A process cannot be understood by stopping it. Understanding must move with the flow of the process, must join and flow with it. -- F. Herbert (The First Law of Mentat in "Dune")
It's [programming] the only job I can think of where I get to be both an engineer and an artist. There's an incredible, rigorous, technical element to it, which I like because you have to do very precise thinking. On the other hand, it has a wildly creative side where the boundaries of imagination are the only real limitation. -- A. Hertzfeld (original Mac programmer)
... At first I hoped that such a technically unsound project would collapse but I soon realized it was doomed to success. Almost anything in software can be implemented, sold, and even used given enough determination. There is nothing a mere scientist can say that will stand against the flood of a hundred million dollars. But there is one quality that cannot be purchased in this way -- and that is reliability. The price of reliability is the pursuit of the utmost simplicity. It is a price which the very rich find most hard to pay. -- C.A.R. Hoare
I was eventually persuaded of the need to design programming notations so as to maximize the number of errors which cannot be made, or if made, can be reliably detected at compile time. -- C.A.R. Hoare
In the development of the understanding of complex phenomena, the most powerful tool available to the human intellect is abstraction. Abstraction arises from the recognition of similarities between certain objects, situations, or processes in the real world and the decision to concentrate on these similarities and to ignore, for the time being, their differences. -- C.A.R. Hoare
Inside every well-written large program is a well-written small program. -- C.A.R. Hoare
Premature optimization is the root of all evil in programming. -- C.A.R. Hoare
The unavoidable price of reliability is simplicity. -- C.A.R. Hoare
What is the central core of the subject [computer science]? What is it that distinguishes it from the separate subjects with which it is related? What is the linking thread which gathers these disparate branches into a single discipline. My answer to these questions is simple -- it is the art of programming a computer. It is the art of designing efficient and elegant methods of getting a computer to solve problems, theoretical or practical, small or large, simple or complex. It is the art of translating this design into an effective and accurate computer program. -- C.A.R. Hoare
You cannot teach beginners top-down programming, because they don't know which end is up. -- C.A.R. Hoare
All thought is a kind of computation. -- D. Hobbes
The problem is never how to get new, innovative thoughts into your mind, but how to get old ones out! -- D. Hock (founder of VISA)
Using a language we may create models of phenomena of interest, and by using models, phenomena may be studied for purposes of understanding or prediction. Models may be used for analysis focussed on a close examination of individual parts of the model and for synthesis aimed at understanding the interplay of the parts, that is, understanding the model as a whole. A novel is like a model of the real world expressed in a written language like English. In a novel, the characters may be analyzed and the interaction between people may be displayed and studied. (in "Dreams of Calculus: Perspectives on Mathematics Education") -- J. Hoffman, C. Johnson, A. Logg
The ability to simplify means to eliminate the unnecessary so that the necessary may speak. -- H. Hofmann (in "Introduction to the Bootstrap")
This sequence [of languages, SP/1 through SP/8] solves one of the perennial problems of introductory programming. As J.J. Horning once put it, the subject requires that everything must be taught first. -- R. Holt, D. Wortman, D. Barnard and J. Cordy (quoting J.J. Horning) in "SP/k: A System for Teaching Computer Programming", CACM 20/5 (May 77) pg. 303
A ship in port is safe, but that is not what ships are built for. I want all the youngsters to sail out to sea and be good ships. -- G. Hopper
When you have a good idea and you've tried it and you know it's going to work, go ahead and do it -- because it's much easier to apologize afterwards than it is to get permission. -- G. Hopper
Computer Science is the only discipline in which we view adding a new wing to a building as being maintenance. -- J. Horning
To treat programming scientifically, it must be possible to specify the required properties of programs precisely. Formality is certainly not an end in itself. The importance of formal specifications must ultimately rest in their utility -- in whether or not they are used to improve the quality of software or to reduce the cost of producing and maintaining software. -- J. Horning
One purpose of CRC cards [a design tool] is to fail early, to fail often, and to fail inexpensively. It is a lot cheaper to tear up a bunch of cards that it would be to reorganize a large amount of source code. -- C. Horstmann (in Object-Oriented Design with Java)
We [teachers] make the road, others will make the journey. -- V. Hugo
The greatest mistake you can make is to be continually fearing you will make one. -- E. Hubbard
Rules of Optimization: Rule 1: Don't do it. Rule 2 (for experts only): Don't do it yet. -- M. A. Jackson
In the practical use of our intellect, forgetting is as important as remembering. -- W. James
That simplicity is the ultimate sophistication. What we meant by that was when you start looking at a problem and it seems really simple with all these simple solutions, you don't really understand the complexity of the problem. And your solutions are way too oversimplified, and they don't work. Then you get into the problem, and you see it's really complicated. And you come up with all these convoluted solutions. That's sort of the middle, and that's where most people stop, and the solutions tend to work for a while. But the really great person will keep on going and find, sort of, the key, underlying principle of the problem. And come up with a beautiful elegant solution that works. -- S. Jobs (in "The Perfect Thing" by Steven Levy, pg. 67-68)
The only problem with Microsoft is they just have no taste. They have absolutely no taste. What that means is -- I don't mean that in a small way; I mean that in a big way -- is the sense that they don't think of original ideas. They don't bring much culture into their product. ... So I guess I am saddened not by Microsoft's success -- I have no problem with their success; they've earned their success (for the most part). I have a problem with the fact that the just make really third-rate products. -- S. Jobs (transcribed from "Triumph of the Nerds")
Before software can be reusable it first has to be usable. -- R. Johnson
The fastest algorithm can frequently be replaced by one that is almost as fast and much easier to understand. -- D. Jones
To teach is to learn twice. -- J. Joubert
The honest truth is that having a lot of people staring at the code does not find the really nasty bugs. The really nasty bugs are found by a couple of really smart people who just kill themselves. (also see "Given enough eyeballs..." by E. Raymond). -- B. Joy
We don't manage our time as well as we manage our space. There's an overhead of starting and an overhead of stopping a project because you kind of lose your momentum. And you've got to bracket and put aside all the things you're already doing. So you need reasonably large blocks of uninterrupted time if you're going to be successful at doing some of these things. That's why hackers tend to stay up late. If you stay up late and you have another hour of work to do, you can just stay up another hour later without running into a wall and having to stop. Whereas it might take three or four hours if you start over, you might finish if you just work that extra hour. If you're a morning person, the day always intrudes a fixed amount of time in the future. So it's much less efficient. Which is why I think computer people tend to be night people -- because a machine doesn't get sleepy. -- B. Joy
In the particular is contained the universal. -- J. Joyce
Mistakes are the portals of discovery. -- J. Joyce
90% of code written today is getting around other people's mistakes. -- A. Kay
Computers are to computing as instruments are to music. Software is the score whose interpretations amplifies our reach and lifts our spirits. Leonardo da Vinci called music the shaping of the invisible, and his phrase is even more apt as a description of software. -- A. Kay
[In a programming language] Simple things should be simple and complex things should be possible. -- A. Kay
The best way to predict the future is to invent it. -- A. Kay
Until real software engineering is developed, the next best practice is to develop with a dynamic system that has extreme late binding in all aspects. -- A. Kay
When you can measure what you are speaking about, and express it in numbers, you know something about it; but when you cannot measure it, when you cannot express it in numbers, your knowledge is of a meager and unsatisfactory kind. -- Lord Kelvin
Should array indices start at 0 or 1? My compromise of 0.5 was rejected without, I thought, proper consideration. -- S. Kelly-Bootle
If you have a large number of unrelated ideas, you have to get quite a distance away from them to get a view of all of them, and this is the role of abstraction. If you look at each too closely you see too many details. If you get far away things may appear simpler because you can only see the large, broad outlines; you do not get lost in petty details. -- J. Kemeny (co-creator of the BASIC programming language)
Act in haste and repent at leisure; code too soon and debug forever. -- R. Kennington
Everyone knows that debugging is twice as hard as writing a program in the first place. So if you are as clever as you can be when you write it, how will you ever debug it? -- B. Kernighan
Another effective [debugging] technique is to explain your code to someone else. This will often cause you to explain the bug to yourself. Sometimes it takes no more than a few sentences, followed by an embarrassed "Never mind, I see what's wrong. Sorry to bother you." This works remarkably well; you can even use non-programmers as listeners. One university computer center kept a teddy bear near the help desk. Students with mysterious bugs were required to explain them to the bear before they could speak to a human counselor. -- B. Kernighan & D. Pike (in "The Practice of Programming" pp. 123)
The only way to learn a new programming language is by writing programs in it. -- B. Kernighan & D. Ritchie
The study of law is something new and unfamiliar to most of you -- unlike any schooling you have ever been through before. We use the Socratic method here: I call on you, ask you a question, and you answer it. Why don't I just give you a lecture? Because through my questions you learn to teach yourselves. Through this method of questioning-answering, questioning-answering, we seek to develop in you the ability to analyze that vast complex of facts that constitute the relationships of members within a given society. Questioning and answering. At times, you may feel that you have found the correct answer. I assure you that this is a total delusion on your part. You will never find the correct, absolute, and final answer. In my classroom, there is always another question, another question to follow your answer. Yes, you are on a treadmill. My little questions spin the tumblers of your mind. You are on an operating table; my little questions are the fingers probing your brain. We do brain surgery here. You teach yourselves the law, but I train your mind. You come in here with a skull full of mush, and you leave thinking like a lawyer. -- Professor Kingsfield (addressing 1st year Harvard Law Students in "The Paper Chase")
A charlatan makes obscure what is clear; a thinker makes clear what is obscure. -- H. Kingsmill
Beware of bugs in the above code; I have only proved it correct, not tried it. -- D. Knuth
Computers are good at following instructions, but not at reading your mind. -- D. Knuth (Tex, pg. 9)
Debugging is an art that needs much further study . ... The most effective debugging techniques seem to be those which are designed and built into the program itself -- many of today's best programmers will devote nearly half of their programs to facilitating the debugging process on the other half; the first half... will eventually be thrown away, but the net result is a surprising gain in productivity. Another good debugging practice is to keep a record of every mistake that is made. Even though this will probably be quite embarrassing, such information is invaluable to anyone doing research on the debugging problem, and it will also help you learn how to reduce the number of future errors. -- D. Knuth (The Art of Computer Programming, Volume 1)
Let us change our traditional attitude to the construction of programs. Instead of imagining that our main task is to instruct a computer what to do, let us concentrate rather on explaining to human beings what we want a computer to do. -- D. Knuth
... methods are more important than facts. The educational value of a problem given to a student depends mostly on how often the thought processes that are invoked to solve it will be helpful in later situations. It has little to do with how useful the answer to the problem may be. On the other hand, a good problem must also motivate the students; they should be interested in seeing the answer. Since students differ so greatly, I cannot expect everyone to like the problems that please me. -- D. Knuth (in "Are Toy Problems Useful", Chapter 10 of "Selected Papers on Computer Science", pg. 176)
... One of the most important lessons, perhaps, is the fact that SOFTWARE IS HARD. From now on I shall have significantly greater respect for every successful software tool that I encounter. During the past decade I was surprised to learn that the writing of programs for TeX and Metafont proved to be much more difficult than all the other things I had done (like proving theorems or writing books). The creation of good software demand a significantly higher standard of accuracy than those other things do, and it requires a longer attention span than other intellectual tasks. -- D. Knuth (in "Selected Papers on Computer Science", pp 161)
We should forget about small efficiencies, say about 97% of the time: premature optimization is the root of all evil. -- D. Knuth
When I speak about computer programming as an art, I am thinking primarily of it as an art form, in an aesthetic sense. The chief goal of my work as an educator and author is to help people learn how to write beautiful programs... My feeling is that when we prepare a program, the experience can be just like composing poetry or music... Some programs are elegant, some are exquisite, some are sparkling. My claim is that it is possible to write grand programs, noble programs, truly magnificent ones! ... computer programming is an art, because it applies accumulated knowledge to the world, because it requires skill and ingenuity, and especially because it produces objects of beauty. Programmers who subconsciously view themselves as artists will enjoy what they do and will do it better. -- D. Knuth (Computer Programming as an Art. Turing Award Speech 1974)
When certain concepts of TeX are introduced informally, general rules will be stated; afterwards you will find that the rules aren't strictly true. In general, the later chapters contain more reliable information than the earlier ones do. The author feels that this technique of deliberate lying will actually make it easier for you to learn the ideas. Once you understand a simple but false rule, it will not be hard to supplement that rule with its exceptions. -- D. Knuth (Tex, pg. vi)
If we really understand the problem, the answer will come out of it, because the answer is not separate from the problem. -- J. Krishnamurti
Any sufficiently advanced bug is indistinguishable from a feature. -- R. Kulawiec
There is a race between the increasing complexity of the systems we build and our ability to develop intellectual tools for understanding their complexity. If the race is won by our tools, then systems will eventually become easier to use and more reliable. If not, they will continue to become harder to use and less reliable for all but a relatively small set of common tasks. Given how hard thinking is, if those intellectual tools are to succeed, they will have to substitute calculation for thought. -- L. Lamport
"Where have you performed?" Murray asked me from behind a copy of Variety. "Well, I don't perform, exactly," I answered, "but I have spoken at synagogues, and I lecture from time to time at colleges and universities." "Universities?" Murray sputtered. "Did he say universities? Worst audience in the world. I spoke at a university once. They invited me to speak about the hotel industry. Believe me, I've got a pretty good routine on this; I've used it many times before, and I know where I'm supposed to get reactions: chuckles, laughs, applause. Son of a bitch, I stand up there and it's a grim audience! All these young people in jeans and sneakers. I open it up for questions. These bastards are dead serious -- they're taking notes! I realized later, they weren't an audience, they were students. They take notes and get grades. They're not there to laugh. Who wants to perform for an audience like that?" -- A. Lansky, relating his experiences lecturing at resorts in the Catskills while raising money for the National Yiddish Book Center (described in his book, "Outwitting History")
We think only through the medium of words. Languages are true analytical methods. Algebra, which is adapted to its purpose in every species of expression, in the most simple, most exact, and best manner possible, is at the same time a language and an analytical method. The art of reasoning is nothing more than a language well arranged. -- A. Lavoisier
We don't have much time, so we don't teach them; we acquaint them with things that they can learn. -- C. Leiserson (on "The Undergraduate Practicum" at MIT, from a talk at CMU)
Learning is never done without errors and defeat. -- V. Lenin
If you want truly to understand something, try to change it. -- K. Lewin
A vivid confirmation of this analysis [the importance of extra-curricular activities] occurred during a lunchtime conversation I had with three computer science graduates of the classes of 1994/1995 who started a company together and sold it in 1998 for more than $250 million. Over sandwiches I asked them what part of their computer science education had been most important to the success of their software enterprise. After a moment of tight smiles and awkward silence, one of the young graduates spoke up. "The computer science courses I took were really terrific," he said in an attempt to reassure me, "but I didn't learn much that I could not have learned on my own. The most important things I learned were from managing the Quincy House Grill." It made perfect sense -- hiring, firing, and inspiring colleagues, working under pressure in close quarters -- all were very much the same in the cheeseburger-flipping business he had run at Harvard as in the software business the three had started in a tiny apartment. -- H. Lewis (in "Excellence Without Soul", pg. 88)
... fielding statistics made sense only as numbers, not as language. Language, not numbers, is what interested him [Bill James, a baseball writer]. Words, and the meaning they were designed to convey. "When the numbers acquire the significance of the language," he later wrote, "they acquire the power to do all the things which language can do: to become fiction and drama and poetry." -- M. Lewis (in Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game, page 67)
Complexity is a sign of technical immaturity. Simplicity of use is the real sign of a well design product whether it is an ATM or a Patriot missile. -- D. Ling
Composing computer programs to solve scientific problems is like writing poetry. You must choose every word with care and link it with the other words in perfect syntax. There is no place for verbosity or carelessness. To become fluent in a computer language demands almost the antithesis of modern loose thinking. It requires many interactive sessions, the hands-on use of the device. You do not learn a foreign language from a book, rather you have to live in the country for year to let the language become an automatic part of you, and the same is true for computer languages. -- James Lovelock (Originator of the Gaia Theory)
In the beginning we must simplify the subject, thus unavoidably falsifying it, and later we must sophisticate away the falsely simple beginning. -- M. Maimonides
Development is maintenance. -- B. Marick
A teacher's job is to take a bunch of live wires and see that they are well-grounded. -- D. Martin
If our designs are failing due to the constant rain of changing requirements, it is our designs that are at fault. We must somehow find a way to make our designs resilient to such changes and protect them from rotting. -- R. Martin
If the only tool you have is a hammer, you tend to see every problem as a nail. -- A. Maslow
Any clod can have the facts; having opinions is an art. -- C. McCabe
Testing by itself does not improve software quality. Test results are an indicator of quality, but in and of themselves, they don't improve it. Trying to improve software quality by increasing the amount of testing is like try to lose weight by weighing yourself more often. What you eat before you step onto the scale determines how much you will weigh, and the software development techniques you use determine how many errors testing will find. If you want to lose weight, don't buy a new scale; change your diet. If you want to improve your software, don't test more; develop better. -- S. McConnell
Formal methods will never have a significant impact until they can be used by people who don't understand them. -- T. Melham
Programming is similar to a game of golf. The point is not getting the ball in the hole but how many strokes it takes. -- H. Mills
The only way for errors to occur in a program is by being put there by the author. No other mechanisms are known. Programs can't acquire bugs by sitting around with other buggy programs. Right practice aims at preventing insertion of errors and, failing that, removing them before testing or any other running of the program. -- H. Mills
Making the simple complicated is commonplace; making the complicated simple, awesomely simple, that's creativity. -- C. Mingus
A computer is like a violin. You can imagine a novice trying first a phonograph and then a violin. The latter, he says, sounds terrible. That is the argument we have heard from our humanists and most of our computer scientists. Computer programs are good, they say, for particular purposes, but they aren't flexible. Neither is a violin, or a typewriter, until you learn how to use it. -- M. Minsky (in "Why Programming Is a Good Medium for Expressing Poorly-Understood and Sloppily-Formulated Ideas")
Language designers are not intellectuals. They're not as interested in thinking as you might hope. They just want to get a language done and start using it. -- D. Moon
He who hasn't hacked assembly language as a youth has no heart. He who does so as an adult has no brain. -- J Moore
Computer science is to biology what calculus is to physics. It's the natural mathematical technique that best maps the character of the subject. -- H. Morowitz
A little inaccuracy sometimes saves tons of explanation. -- H.H. Munro
You have to honor failure, because failure is just the negative space around success. -- R. Nelson (in Wired 06/2004 page 166)
Computing is not about computers any more. It is about living. -- N. Negroponte
Between 1892 say, and 1904, movies were made by the cameraman because he understood the equipment. And that is exactly where we are now [in software design]. In 1904 they invented the director; what was the director? It was the guy who didn't have to know how to load the camera didn't have to know how to sew costumes, play a violin, dance, fence, or hang the lights. But, he had to know how to make those effects come together in a unified experience... Why are video games so much better designed than office software? Videogames are designed by people who love to play video games. Office software is designed by people who want to do something else on the weekend... What does showbusiness teach you. It teaches you that design is war; it is a power struggle between the producers, directors, authors, everyone who wants to be involved. -- T. Nelson (transcribed from a talk at Engelbart's Unfinished Revolution a Stanford University Symposium)
In mathematics you don't understand things. You just get used to them. -- J. von Neumann
Millions for compilers, but hardly a penny for understanding human programming language use. Now, programming languages are obviously symmetrical, the computer on one side, the human on the other. In an appropriate science of computer languages, one would expect that half the effort would be on the computer side, understanding how to translate the languages into executable form, and half on the human side, understanding how to design languages that are easy or productive to use. Yet, we do not even have an enumeration of all the psychologicial functions programing languages serve for the user. Of course, there is lots of programming language design, but it comes from computer scientists. And though technical papers on languages contain main appeals to ease of use and learning, they patently contain almost no psychological evidence nor any appeal to psychological science. -- A. Newell and S. Card
There is no reason anyone would want a computer in their home. -- K. Olsen (Founder and President, Digital Equipment Corporation), 1977
The best performance improvement is the transition from the nonworking state to the working state -- J. Osterhout
Complexity kills. It sucks the life out of developers, it makes products difficult to plan, build and test, it introduces security challenges and it causes end-user and administrator frustration. ... [we should] explore and embrace techniques to reduce complexity. -- R. Ozzie
As a rule, software systems do not work well until they have been used, and have failed repeatedly, in real applications. -- D. Parnas
A programming language is like a natural, human language in that it favors certain metaphors, images, and ways of thinking. -- S. Papert (in "Mindstorms: Children, Computers, and Powerful Ideas", 1980)
My basic idea is that programming is the most powerful medium of developing the sophisticated and rigorous thinking needed for mathematics, for grammar, for physics, for statistics, for all the "hard" subjects. ... In short, I believe more than ever that programming should be a key part of the intellectual development of people growing up. -- S. Papert (in "CACM January 2005 (Vol 24, #1, pp38)")
I have made this letter longer than usual, only because I have not had the time to make it shorter. -- B. Pascal
Chance favors the prepared mind. -- L. Pasteur
A class, in Java, is where we teach objects how to behave. -- R. Pattis
Code should run as fast as necessary, but no faster; something important is always traded away to increase speed. -- R. Pattis
He who runs an av-rage pace, runs alone throughout the race. [I know I'm teaching at the right pace when I please no one: half the students say I'm going too slow, half too fast.] -- R. Pattis
If you cannot grok the overall structure of a program while taking a shower [e.g., with no external memory aids], you are not ready to code it. -- R. Pattis
Programming languages, like pizzas, come in only too sizes; too big and too small. -- R. Pattis
The discipline of programming is most like sorcery. Both use precise language to instruct inanimate objects to do our bidding. Small mistakes in programs or spells can lead to completely unforeseen behavior: e.g., see the story, "The Sorcerer's Apprentice". Neither study is easy: " ... her [Galinda's] early appetite for sorcery had waned once she'd heard what a grind it was to learn spells and, worse, to understand them." from the book "Wicked" by G. Maguire. -- R. Pattis
The purpose of brakes on a car is to allow you to go fast. Although the gas pedal makes you go fast, the brake pedal allows you to drive safely while going fast. The purpose of a strict compiler (one that performs type checking, uninitialized variable checking, reachability analysis, etc.) is to allow you to program fast. Programmers -- like all humans -- have limited intellects: when they focus on one aspect of a program, they must ignore others. Focusing on the right aspect at the right time is critical. By understanding those aspects that the compiler can check, you can ignore them, and focus on more important ones. Some programmers think that such an approach is reckless; they believe that you must pay close attention to everything at once. They are right -- for them; but I'm just not that smart, so I must use my tools more effectively. -- R. Pattis
The structure of a software system provides the ecology in which code is born, matures, and dies. A well-designed habitat allows for the successful evolution of all the components needed in a software system. -- R. Pattis
The three most important aspects of debugging and real estate are the same: Location, Location, and Location. -- R. Pattis
There is a famous rule in performance optimization called the 90/10 rule: 90% of a program's execution time is spent in only 10% of its code. The standard inference from this rule is that programmers should find that 10% of the code and optimize it, because that's the only code where improvements make a difference in the overall system performance. But a second inference is just as important: programmers can deoptimize the other 90% of the code (in order to make it easier to use, maintain, etc.), because deterioration (of performance) of that code won't make much of a difference in the overall system performance. -- R. Pattis
When debugging, novices insert corrective code; experts remove defective code. -- R. Pattis
When teaching a rapidly changing technology, perspective is more important than content. -- R. Pattis
When building a complex system, having crackerjack programmers (who can make any design work, even a bad one) can be a liability. The result, after lots of effort, is a working system that cannot be easily maintained or upgraded. Good -- but not great -- programmers would fail early, causing a realization that the system must be redesigned, and then reimplemented. The extra cost is paid once, early in the system's cycle (when it is cheap), instead of repeatedly paid late in the system's cycle (when it is more expensive). -- R. Pattis
Don't tell people how to do things. Tell them what to do and let them surprise you with their results. -- G. Patton
The best way to get a good idea is to get a lot of ideas. -- L. Pauling
A good programming language is a conceptual universe for thinking about programming. -- A. Perlis
I think that it's extraordinarily important that we in computer science keep fun in computing. When it started out, it was an awful lot of fun. Of course, the paying customers got shafted every now and then, and after a while we began to take their complaints seriously. We began to feel as if we really were responsible for the successful, error-free perfect use of these machines. I don't think we are. I think we're responsible for stretching them, setting them off in new directions, and keeping fun in the house. I hope the field of computer science never loses its sense of fun. -- A. Perlis
Computers are useless. They only give you answers. -- P. Picasso
I am always doing that which I cannot do, in order that I may learn how to do it. -- P. Picasso
Fancy algorithms are slow when N is small, and N is usually small. -- R. Pike
Fancy optimizers have fancy bugs. -- R. Pike
Thinking and spoken discourse are the same thing, except that what we call thinking is, precisely, the inward dialogue carried on by the mind with itself without spoken sound. -- Plato
The mind is not a vessel to be filled, but a fire to be ignited. -- Plutarch (See W.B. Yeats: Education...)
Life is good only for two things: to study mathematics and to teach it. -- M. Poisson
Computers in the future may weigh no more than 1.5 tons. -- Popular Science (1959)
Knowledge of a subject means knowledge of the language of that subject, which includes not only what its words mean, but far more important, how its words mean. As one learns the language of a subject, one is also learning what the subject is. It cannot be said often enough that what we call a subject consists mostly, if not entirely, of its language. If you eliminate all the words of a subject, you have eliminated the subject. Biology is not plants and animals. It is language about plants and animals. History is not events. It is language describing and interpreting events. Astronomy is not planets and stars. It is a way of talking about planets and stars. -- N. Postman
Gates has always understood Moore's Law better than anyone else in the industry. If you can make something run at all, get it out there -- it may be slow and clunky, but hardware improvements will bail you out. If you wait until it's running perfectly on the hardware already in the field, it will be obsolete before it's released. This philosophy built Microsoft and is the main reason Microsoft won the war IBM declared back in the OS/2 days. -- J. Pournelle (Dr. Dobbs Journal, Feb. 2004, pp. 89)
The voyage of discovery is not in seeking new landscapes but in having new eyes. -- M. Proust
I really hate this darn machine; I wish that they would sell it. It won't do what I want it to, but only what I tell it. -- Programmer's Lament
Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow (e.g., given a large enough beta-tester and co-developer base, almost every problem will be characterized quickly and the fix obvious to someone). (also see "The honest truth..." by B. Joy). -- E. Raymond (Lesson 8 in The Cathedral and the Bazaar)
Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to use. [I'd add: Exceptional programmers know how to write code that others can use. -REP] -- E. Raymond
Ugly programs are like ugly suspension bridges: they're much more liable to collapse than pretty ones, because the way humans (especially engineer-humans) perceive beauty is intimately related to our ability to process and understand complexity. A language that makes it hard to write elegant code makes it hard to write good code. -- E. Raymond
Computer Science is the first engineering discipline in which the complexity of the objects created is limited solely by the skill of the creator, and not by the strength of raw materials. -- B. Reid
All of us had been trained by Kelly Johnson [designer of the Lockheed SR-71] and believed fanatically in his insistence that an airplane that looked beautiful would fly the same way. -- B. Rich (in "Skunk Works")
In time of profound change, the learners inherit the earth, while the learned find themselves beautifully equipped to deal with a world that no longer exists. -- A. Rogers
God is in the details. -- M. van der Rohe
Less is more. -- M. van der Rohe
Software is abstract and therefore seems as if it should be infinitely malleable. And yet, for all its ethereal flexibility, it can be stubbornly, maddeningly intractable, and it is constantly surprising us with his rigidity. -- S. Rosenberg (in "Dreaming in Code", pp 58)
Don't you hate code that's not properly indented? Making it [indenting] part of the syntax guarantees that all code is properly indented. -- G. van Rossum (designer of the Python)
The highest reward for a person's toil is not what they get for it, but what they become by it. -- J. Ruskin
Language serves not only to express thought but to make possible thoughts which could not exist without it. -- B. Russell
A designer knows he's achieved perfection not when there is nothing left to add, but when there is nothing left to take away. -- A. de Saint-Exupery
If you want to build a ship, don't drum up the men to gather wood, divide the work and give orders. Instead, teach them to yearn for the vast and endless sea. -- A. de Saint-Exupery
Questions are the important thing, answers are less important. Learning to ask a good question is the heart of intelligence. Learning the answer -- well, answers are for students. Questions are for thinkers. -- R. Schank (in "The Connoisseur's Guide to the Mind")
There is one very good reason to learn programming, but it has nothing to do with preparing for high-tech careers or with making sure one is computer literate in order to avoid being cynically manipulated by the computers of the future. The real value of learning to program can only be understood if we look at learning to program as an exercise of the intellect, as a kind of modern-day Latin that we learn to sharpen our minds. -- R. Schank (in "The Cognitive Computer)
Always do the hard part first. If the hard part is impossible, why waste time on the easy part? Once the hard part is done, you're home free. Always do the easy part first. What you think at first is the easy part often turns out to be the hard part. Once the easy part is done, you can concentrate all your efforts on the hard part. -- A. Schapira
The skill of writing is to create a context in which other people can think. -- E. Schlossberg
Machines are simple: a hammer, a door hinge, a steak knife. Systems are much more complicated; they have components, feedback loops, mean times between failure, infrastructure. Digital systems are daedal; even a simple computer program has hundreds of thousands of lines of computer code doing all sorts of different things. A complex computer program has thousands of components, each of which has to work by itself and in interaction with all the other components. This is why object-oriented programming was developed: to deal with the complexity of digital systems... systems have bugs. A bug is a particular kind of failure... It's different from a malfunction. When something malfunctions, it no longer works properly. When something has a bug, it misbehaves in a particular way, possibly unrepeatable, and possibly unexplainable. Bugs are unique to systems. Machines can break, or fail, or not work, but only a system can have a bug. -- B. Schneier (in Secrets & Lies: Digital Security in a Networked World).
Microsoft knows that reliable software is not cost effective. According to studies, 90% to 95% of all bugs are harmless. They're never discovered by users, and they don't affect performance. It's much cheaper to release buggy software and fix the 5% to 10% of bugs people find and complain about. -- B. Schneier
If the code and the comments disagree, then both are probably wrong. -- N. Schryer
Always to see the general in the particular is the very foundation of genius. -- A. Schopenhauer
Thus the task is not so much to see what no one has yet seen, but to think what no one has yet thought about that which everybody sees. -- E. Schrodinger
Data is not information, Information is not knowledge, Knowledge is not understanding, Understanding is not wisdom. -- Gary Schubert (extending Cliff Stoll in "Silicon Snake Oil")
Any intelligent fool can make things bigger and more complex. It takes a touch of genius -- and a lot of courage -- to move in the opposite direction -- E.F. Schumacher
And simple truth miscalled simplicity -- W. Shakespeare (Sonnet 66)
Learning results from what the student does and thinks, and only from what the student does and thinks. The teacher can advance learning only by influencing the student to learn. -- H. Simon
Mathematics is a language. We want scientists to be able to read it, speak it, and write it. But we are are not training them to be grammarians. -- H. Simon
I'd rather write programs to write programs than write programs. -- D. Sites
I cannot teach anybody anything, I can only make them think. -- Socrates
One must learn by doing the thing; for though you think you know it, you have no certainty, until you try. -- Sophocles
Computers do not solve problems -- computers carry out solutions, specified by people, to problems. -- D. D. Spencer
EMACS could not have been reached by a process of careful design, because such processes arrive only at goals which are visible at the outset, and whose desirability is established on the bottom line at the outset. Neither I nor anyone else visualized an extensible editor until I had made one, nor appreciated its value until he had experienced it. EMACS exists because I felt free to make individually useful small improvements on a path whose end was not in sight. -- R. Stallman
Giving the Linus Torvalds Award to the Free Software Foundation is a bit like giving the Han Solo Award to the Rebel Alliance. -- R. Stallman
Being forced to write comments actually improves code, because it is easier to fix a crock than to explain it. -- G. Steele
[teaching]is rather artificial. The world is complicated and messy, with lots of loose ends, and the teacher's job is to impose order on the confusion, to convert a chaotic set of episodes into a coherent narrative. -- I. Stewart (in "Letters to a Young Mathematician")
Don't get suckered in by the comments -- they can be terribly misleading: Debug only the code. -- D. Storer
Design and programming are human activities; forget that and all is lost. -- B. Stroustrup
It is my firm belief that all successful languages are grown and not merely designed from first principles -- B. Stroustrup (in "The Design and Evolution of C++")
More good code has been written in languages denounced as "bad" than in languages proclaimed "wonderful" -- much more. -- B. Stroustrup (in The Design and Evolution of C++)
The most important single aspect of software development is to be clear about what you are trying to build. -- B. Stroustrup
There are only two kinds of programming languages: those people always bitch about and those nobody uses. -- B. Stroustrup
I have learned throughout my life as a composer chiefly through my mistakes and pursuits of false assumptions, not my exposure to founts of wisdom and knowledge. -- I. Stravinsky
Omit needless words. Vigorous writing is concise. A sentence should contain no unnecessary words, a paragraph no unnecessary sentences, for the same reason that a drawing should have no unnecessary lines and a machine no unnecessary parts. -- W Strunk Jr (in The Elements of Style)
Rewrite and revise. Do not be afraid to seize what you have and cut it to ribbons ... Good writing means good revising. -- W Strunk Jr (in The Elements of Style)
In engineering, as in other creative arts, we must learn to do analysis to support our efforts in synthesis. One cannot build a beautiful and functional bridge without a knowledge of steel and dirt, and a considerable mathematical technique for using this knowledge to compute the properties of structures. Similarly, one cannot build a beautiful computer system without a deep understanding of how to "previsualize" the process generated by the code one writes. -- G. Sussman
It is a bad plan that admits of no modification. -- P. Syrus
Once you succeed in writing the programs for [these] complicated algorithms, they usually run extremely fast. The computer doesn't need to understand the algorithm, its task is only to run the programs. -- R. Tarjan
A programming language is a system of notation for describing computations. A useful programming language must therefore be suited for both description(i.e., for human writers and readers of programs) and for computation (i.e., for efficient implementation on computers). But human beings and computers are so different that it is difficult to find notational devices that are well suited to the capabilities of both. -- R. Tennant (Principles of Programming Languages, Prentice Hall, 1981)
The function of genius is not to give new answers, but to pose new questions which time and mediocrity can resolve. -- H. Trevor-Howard
It is better to have an approximate answer to the right question than an exact answer to the wrong one. -- J. Tukey
Unless in communicating with it [a computer] one says exactly what one means, trouble is bound to result. -- A. Turing
We shall do a much better programming job, provided we approach the task with a full appreciation of its tremendous difficulty, provided that we respect the intrinsic limitations of the human mind and approach the task as very humble programmers. -- A. Turing
He [John von Neumann] had the invaluable faculty of being able to take the most difficult problem and separate it into its components, whereupon everything looked brilliantly simple. -- S. Ulam (Bull. of American Mathematical Society, May 1958)
It's easy to cry "bug" when the truth is that you've got a complex system and sometimes it takes a while to get all the components to co-exist peacefully. -- D. Vargas
The outcome of any serious research can only be to make two questions grow where only one grew before. -- T. Veblen
The best is the enemy of the good. -- Voltaire ("Dramatic Art" in Philosophical Dictionary, 1764)
Judge a man by his questions, rather than his answers. -- Voltaire
The problem with using C++... is that there's already a strong tendency in the language to require you to know everything before you can do anything. -- L. Wall
The mediocre teacher tells. The good teacher explains. The superior teacher demonstrates. The great teacher inspires. -- W. A. Ward
I think there is a world market for maybe five computers. -- T. J. Watson (Founder and Chairman, IBM), 1943
If you want to increase your success rate, double your failure rate. -- T. J. Watson
The best writing is rewriting. -- E. B. White
By relieving the brain of all unnecessary work, a good notation sets it free to concentrate on more advanced problems, and in effect increases the mental power of the race. -- A. N. Whitehead
It is a profoundly erroneous truism, repeated by all the copybooks, and by eminent people when they are making speeches, that we should cultivate the habit of thinking what we are doing. The precise opposite is the case. Civilization advances by extending the number of operations which we can perform without thinking about them. Operations of thought are like cavalry charges in a battle -- they are strictly limited in number, they require fresh horses, and must only be made at decisive moments. -- A. N. Whitehead (in "An Introduction to Mathematics")
The computer programmer ... is a creator of universes for which he alone is the lawgiver ... universes of virtually unlimited complexity can be created in the form of computer programs. Moreover ... systems so formulated and elaborated act out their programmed scripts. They compliantly obey their laws and vividly exhibit their obedient behavior. No playwright, no stage director, no emperor, however powerful, has ever exercised such absolute authority to arrange a stage or a field of battle and to command such unswervingly dutiful actors or troops. -- J. Weizenbaum (Computer Power and Human Reason, page 115)
Newton was a genius, but not because of the superior computational power of his brain. Newton's genius was, on the contrary, his ability to simplify, idealize, and streamline the world so that it became, in some measure, tractable to the brains of perfectly ordinary men. -- G. M. Weinberg
I have never learned anything except from people younger than myself. -- O. Wilde
As soon as we started programming, we found out to our surprise that it wasn't as easy to get programs right as we had thought. Debugging had to be discovered. I can remember the exact instant when I realized that a large part of my life from then on was going to be spent in finding mistakes in my own programs. -- M. Wilkes
Furious activity is no substitute for understanding. -- H. H. Williams
From a programmer's point of view, the user is a peripheral that types when you issue a read request. -- P. Williams
He knows the course forwards and backwards. He teaches it backwards -- S. Willoughby (commenting on Garrett Birkhoff's freshman calculus course at Harvard in "The Other End of the Log: Memoirs of an Education Rebel")
Complexity has and will maintain a strong fascination for many people. It is true that we live in a complex world and strive to solve inherently complex problems, which often do require complex mechanisms. However, this should not diminish our desire for elegant solutions, which convince by their clarity and effectiveness. Simple, elegant solutions are more effective, but they are harder to find than complex ones, and they require more time, which we too often believe to be unaffordable -- N. Wirth
Increasingly, people seem to misinterpret complexity as sophistication, which is baffling -- the incomprehensible should cause suspicion rather than admiration. Possibly this trend results from a mistaken belief that using a somewhat mysterious device confers an aura of power on the user. -- N. Wirth
Software gets slower faster than hardware gets faster. (Or, sometimes known by] Grove [the head of Intel] giveth and Gates [the head of Microsoft] taketh away.) -- N. Wirth
Don't ask what it means, but rather how it is used. -- L. Wittgenstein
If we spoke a different language, we would perceive a somewhat different world. -- L. Wittgenstein
The limits of your language are the limits of your world. -- L. Wittgenstein
More bugs have been introduced into programs through premature optimization than any other cause, including pure stupidity. (sometimes quoted as, "More computing sins are committed in the name of efficiency (without necessarily achieving it) than for any other single reason -- including blind stupidity.") -- W. Wulf
Education is not the filling of a pail, but the lighting of a fire. -- W.B. Yeats (See Plutarch: The mind...)
Cutler, armed with a schedule [for finishing MS Windows NT], was urging the team to "eat its own dog food." Part macho stunt and part common sense, the "dog food diet" was the cornerstone of Cutler's philosophy. "We're going to run on the program we build," he insisted. Eating dog food meant there would be no escape from facing the flaws and imperfections of NT. Even while immersed in his own piece of NT, a code writer would confront all of its weaknesses. By controlling the operations of a code writer's computer, NT would define the quality of his life. If at first NT tasted no better than dog food, all the better. Code writers would feel an urgent need to raise the dietary level by quickly fixing the errant code and writing more durable code in the first place. -- G. P. Zachary (in "Show-Stopper: The Breakneck Race to Create Windows NT and the Next Generation at Microsoft")
Technical skill is mastery of complexity, while creativity is mastery of simplicity. -- E. C. Zeeman
One day Chao-Chou fell down in the snow, and called out: "Help me! Help Me!" A monk came and lay down beside him. Chao-Chou got up and went away. -- Zen koan
Who is wise? He who learns from all people... as it is said: "From all my teachers I gained understanding". -- B. Zoma (Psalms 119:99)
1. PUBLIC - Software engineers shall act consistently with the public interest. -- Software Engineering Code of Ethics and Professional Practice (Version 5.2) as recommended by the ACM/IEEE-CS Joint Task Force on Software Engineering Ethics and Professional Practices (Short Version)
2. CLIENT AND EMPLOYER - Software engineers shall act in a manner that is in the best interests of their client and employer consistent with the public interest. -- Software Engineering Code of Ethics and Professional Practice (Version 5.2) as recommended by the ACM/IEEE-CS Joint Task Force on Software Engineering Ethics and Professional Practices (Short Version)
3. PRODUCT - Software engineers shall ensure that their products and related modifications meet the highest professional standards possible. -- Software Engineering Code of Ethics and Professional Practice (Version 5.2) as recommended by the ACM/IEEE-CS Joint Task Force on Software Engineering Ethics and Professional Practices (Short Version)
4. JUDGMENT - Software engineers shall maintain integrity and independence in their professional judgment. -- Software Engineering Code of Ethics and Professional Practice (Version 5.2) as recommended by the ACM/IEEE-CS Joint Task Force on Software Engineering Ethics and Professional Practices (Short Version)
5. MANAGEMENT - Software engineering managers and leaders shall subscribe to and promote an ethical approach to the management of software development and maintenance. -- Software Engineering Code of Ethics and Professional Practice (Version 5.2) as recommended by the ACM/IEEE-CS Joint Task Force on Software Engineering Ethics and Professional Practices (Short Version)
6. PROFESSION - Software engineers shall advance the integrity and reputation of the profession consistent with the public interest. -- Software Engineering Code of Ethics and Professional Practice (Version 5.2) as recommended by the ACM/IEEE-CS Joint Task Force on Software Engineering Ethics and Professional Practices (Short Version)
7. COLLEAGUES - Software engineers shall be fair to and supportive of their colleagues. -- Software Engineering Code of Ethics and Professional Practice (Version 5.2) as recommended by the ACM/IEEE-CS Joint Task Force on Software Engineering Ethics and Professional Practices (Short Version)
8. SELF - Software engineers shall participate in lifelong learning regarding the practice of their profession and shall promote an ethical approach to the practice of the profession. -- Software Engineering Code of Ethics and Professional Practice (Version 5.2) as recommended by the ACM/IEEE-CS Joint Task Force on Software Engineering Ethics and Professional Practices (Short Version)
If code doesn't receive constant love it turns to shit. -- Brad Fitzpatrick
It's more fun to compute. -- Kraftwerk
I program my home computer, beam myself into the future. -- Kraftwerk
Write it, cut it, paste it, save it, load it, check it, quick - rewrite it. -- Daft Punk (Technologic)
Train yourself to let go of everything you fear to lose. -- Yoda
Fear is the path to the dark side. Fear leads to anger. Anger leads to hate. Hate leads to suffering. -- Yoda
Always pass on what you have learned. -- Yoda
[Luke:] I cant believe it. [Yoda:] That is why you fail. -- Yoda and Luke
You must unlearn what you have learned. -- Yoda
Truly wonderful the mind of a child is. -- Yoda
Do or do not. There is no try. -- Yoda
You will find only what you bring in. -- Yoda
Ohhh. Great warrior. Wars not make one great. -- Yoda
Control, control, you must learn control! -- Yoda
Hmm. In the end, cowards are those who follow the dark side. -- Yoda
